AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘ATALANTA’ at Caramoor in Katonah, N.Y. (July 22, 4 p.m.). Handel’s opera is brought to life by Nicholas McGegan, San Francisco’s Philharmonia Baroque Orchestra, New York’s Tenet and a cast that includes Sherezade Panthaki in the title role, Amy Freston as Meleagro, Cécile van de Sant as Irene and Davóne Tines as Mercurio.914-232-1252, caramoor.orgBOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. (July 20-21, 8 p.m.; July 22, 2:30 p.m.). Herbert Blomstedt, the charming and immensely respected 91-year-old conductor, has a relationship with Tanglewood that goes back over half a century. He leads two concerts this weekend. On Friday, an all-Mozart affair includes the “Jupiter” Symphony and the Piano Concerto No. 17, with Emanuel Ax. On Saturday, there’s more Mozart, as well as Haydn’s “Nelson” Mass and Bernstein’s “Halil,” in which the soloist will be the ensemble’s principal flutist, Elizabeth Rowe, who is currently suing the orchestra for pay discrimination. And on Sunday afternoon, the music making will be a little less cozy, as the composer Thomas Adès takes the rostrum to conduct a suite from his own opera, “Powder Her Face”; Sibelius’s Symphony No. 5; and Sibelius’s Violin Concerto. Christian Tetzlaff is the violinist.888-266-1200, bso.org‘THE CREATION’ at the Rose Theater (July 19-20, 7:30 p.m.). The pioneering Catalan collective La Fura dels Baus gives Haydn’s oratorio a theatrical treatment, in which you can expect projections, acrobatics, puppetry and all manner else. Laurence Equilbey conducts the Insula Orchestra and the choir Accentus, with Christina Landshamer, Robin Tritschler and Thomas Tatzl as the vocal soloists.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalMOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA at Alice Tully Hall (July 20-21, 7:30 p.m.) and at David Geffen Hall (July 24-25, 7:30 p.m.). There are two programs this week from Mostly Mozart’s resident ensemble: The first, on Friday and Saturday, sticks mostly to, well, Mozart. It features that composer’s last symphony and his last piano concerto, and tacks on a Mendelssohn overture. Thomas Dausgaard, who will soon take over at the Seattle Symphony, conducts; Francesco Piemontesi, an excellent young musician, is the pianist. The second program, on Tuesday and Wednesday, is conducted by Louis Langrée and includes the overture to Bernstein’s “Candide,” Gershwin’s “An American in Paris” and Emanuel Ax playing Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 17 — just as he will have done at Tanglewood a few days earlier.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalNYO2 at Carnegie Hall (July 24, 7:30 p.m.). Concentrating on the inclusion of promising players from historically underrepresented minorities, this junior sibling of the National Youth Orchestra performs a concert of Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 5, a suite from Revueltas’s “Redes” and Prokofiev’s Violin Concerto No. 1. Gil Shaham is the soloist; Carlos Miguel Prieto is the conductor.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgAdvertisement