AdvertisementSupported byRewindBy J. Hoberman“A Very Curious Girl” is a very farcical account of sexual revenge.A one-time staple of women’s film festivals that never quite became a classic, this first feature by the Argentine-French director Nelly Kaplan, originally released in the United States in 1970, is back in an excellent 2K digital restoration at the Quad Cinema.The movie, released in France as “La Fiancée du Pirate” (“The Pirate’s Fiancée”) is set in the fictional village of Tellier (an allusion to the Guy de Maupassant tale of prostitutes on holiday, adapted in Max Ophul’s “Le Plaisir”). Marie (Bernadette Lafont) is a grim-looking servant who, among other indignities, is sexual prey for the men in the village as well as for her female boss (Claire Maurier). After her mother — reviled as a Gypsy — is killed by a hit-and-run driver, Marie decides to charge the Tellier locals for the sexual favors hitherto taken from her.Self-liberated, her look changes. Having applied a cosmetic made from crushed berries and staged a pagan wake for her mother, Marie becomes magically irresistible. In a recent interview with the film journalist Joan Dupont, Kaplan described her protagonist as “a witch who doesn’t let herself be burned.” Indeed, Marie is a Circe who needn’t change her admirers into pigs: They already are.Marie confidently baffles and humiliates the townspeople at every turn, fleecing some, rejecting others and blackmailing them all. Her seductions and transactions are accompanied by a jaunty song “Moi, je me balance” (“Me, I’m Swinging”) written and sung by the celebrated cabaret performer Barbara (Monique Serf). “The bitch has cast a spell on them,” one clod complains of the smitten townsfolk. It’s a line that Kaplan might have heard in life. Born in Buenos Aires in 1931, she moved to Paris at age 22 where she was welcomed into André Breton’s circle of aging surrealists, took up with the venerable filmmaker Abel Gance, and directed a well-received documentary portrait of Pablo Picasso. “A Very Curious Girl” was her declaration of independence.Lafont, a new wave stalwart who made her screen debut in a short by Francois Truffaut, imbues her character with the implacability of a Brecht protagonist. In his generally favorable review, Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote that she “plays Marie with a kind of sexless, intellectual wrath, which makes all the fuss about her legendary sensuality even funnier than it might be if she was a steamy teenager.” (According to Kaplan, Lafont “really didn’t get it, but she was great anyway.”)“A Very Curious Girl” is relentlessly anticlerical as well as anti-bourgeois. Yet as provocatively cartoonish as it is, the film feels closer to the Off Off Broadway spectacles staged by the Playhouse of the Ridiculous in the late 1960s.While very much of its time, “A Very Curious Girl” remains amazingly fresh after 50 years. Marie’s triumph is not just a victory for her sex and class but, given the explicitly xenophobic nature of the smug patriarchal order that she upends, a win for outsiders and outcasts of all varieties.Rewind is an occasional column covering revived, restored and rediscovered movies playing in New York’s repertory theaters.A Very Curious GirlApril 12-18 at the Quad Cinema, Manhattan; 212-255-2243, quadcinema.com.Advertisement