AdvertisementSupported byWhen I talk, people assume a lot about me. For a long time I thought I had to hide.By Guy BranumMr. Branum is a comedian and the author of the memoir “My Life as a Goddess.”I am a gay man, and that means I do not like the sound of my own voice. I do not know when my voice diverged markedly enough from that of other children to be noteworthy, but to say that it’s “always” been like that would be intellectually dishonest. Also, all children sound gay. When you’re 3, you’re allowed to talk about how soft rose petals are, really romance the idea, and everyone’s going to be cool with it. What I’m saying is it’s too early to assume your 4-year-old nephew’s love of butterflies means you’ll have a solid Broadway show companion into your golden years. I grew up a cerebral, effeminate child in a farm town in Northern California. You may assume when I say “Northern California,” I mean the vineyard and lesbian-sous-chef-laden lands of the Napa Valley. I do not. I am from the Sacramento Valley. My home, Sutter County, produces more peaches than the state of Georgia, but not a lot of empathy or curiosity. In this rugged valley of hypermasculine farmers and construction workers, my passion — kindness, reading and charmingly draped garments — were not a seamless fit. By the fourth grade, I learned that there was something about me that made me audibly different from the other boys my age. I could not mask it, I could not change it, I could not fight so well that I could earn the respect of my classmates. My voice evoked rage and disgust from my peers and teachers. I kept it hidden and tried to fit into a role that did not fit me. I played football, I tried to date girls. None of it worked, so I became quiet, very quiet, for a long time.That’s not what everyone does. Some people get really good at making the right noises. They listen closely, they shape and shade their words, becoming a perfect sign and semblance of a man. When you are prey, you learn to camouflage. Straight people love to point out that gay people do not look distinctly different from straight people. The idea that we can pass is supposed to make our marginalization easier. Oh, if you can hide, why not just hide?  What false generosity is it to offer people the opportunity to spend our lives hiding? The idea that gays would be fine if we just hated ourselves into zombie facsimiles of straight people is gross. Also, it’s what we do a lot of the time. The ability to shift between codes is common in many minority groups, but when you’re an invisible minority, some people turn into chameleons. It’s the speech that Mystique gives in “X2,” the terribly named 2003 X-Men movie. Mystique is a mutant with the literal power to chameleon into any shape or voice she chooses, so Nightcrawler says to her, “I heard you can imitate anyone … then why not stay in disguise all the time?” Mystique says, “Because we shouldn’t have to.” Few lines have so incisively characterized the rage I feel. Some people can’t hide. I am one of those people. I wish I’d spent all of my closeted years of self-hatred turning into a perfect simulation of a masculine, muscular straight guy. I didn’t. I’m one of the gay guys whose voices always marked us as men outside masculinity. Men in our society are expected to be loud, gruff, territorial and combative. Failing to comply with this code can result in disrespect, dismissal or even violence. I came to understand it as a test. I would open my mouth, speak, then wait to see how the room reacted. A gay voice, a truly, magnificently gay voice, isn’t just a weakness, though. Plumage is an adaptation just as much as camouflage. We so frequently hear that straight people don’t have a problem with gays; they just don’t understand why we have to “sound like that.” We have to sound “like that” so we can find each other. Gays are a small, diffuse, physically invisible minority. This is deeply isolating. We spend most of our lives in a world built for straight people, where only 70 to 80 percent of our actual life is executable. It takes other gay people for us to have sex, but also for other, less basic operations of identity. Sharing experiences, building relationships and fighting for equality. Silent, we are isolated. Using our voices, we become a culture and a family.At nearly anywhere in the world that isn’t a gay bar, we must assume the people around us are straight. If we make a mistake about that, we could get killed. Identifying other gay people is a delicate science. Staring at dudes like they’re a piece of meat is useful, but it can’t do all the work. So gay male culture demands that we be able to blend into the wallpaper when we need to, but also that we be capable of making ourselves very known in other situations. We deeply fear being seen and heard in the wrong way. This means we fear our own voices, and  we fear other gay men’s voices even more. I mean the tone and timbre of the sounds that come out of our mouths, but I also mean the uncamouflaged content of those voices. Our real stories and lives. For centuries, we’ve masked our stories to look like everyone else’s, terrified of what people would think of us if they knew our real truth. Of course, the only thing worse than having to be embarrassed about your own voice is having to be embarrassed about someone else’s version of your life. Gay people so often fear other gay voices, voices we cannot control representing our shared experiences and world, but because so much is unsaid, we also hunger for our world to be described with grandeur, with plumage.Gay men don’t like art about being gay. We want it, definitely, but when we’re presented with it, it is unsettling. In the foreword to “The Picture of Dorian Gray,” Oscar Wilde wrote, “The 19th-century dislike of Realism is the rage of Caliban seeing his own face in a glass. The 19th-century dislike of Romanticism is the rage of Caliban not seeing his own face in a glass.” So many gay men love literal mirrors, because in a mirror (or Instagram account), you are simply an image that can be groomed to indistinguishability from straightness. Metaphorical mirrors, which reflect the fullness of our lives, will always remind us that we are different. This is why I hate my voice and the voices of other gay men. Heterosexual society wants to keep us weak, apart and uneducated, so it strips us of the tools we need to find one another and learn from one another. I was trained to be quiet, and to hope other people like me would stay quiet to keep us safe.But many gay voices ignored that teaching and became grand and loud. That’s why I love my voice and the voices of other gay men. From Edwardian novels to pop music, from Broadway to comic books, they’ve erupted with beauty, culture, cooperation, music, opinions about Alfre Woodard and sex. Gay art isn’t just works from an underrepresented community; it’s voices that were trained to hide and be silent but were resolute enough to make noise despite the danger. They didn’t know me, but they did it for me. Guy Branum is the host of “Talk Show the Game Show” on truTV and the author of “My Life as a Goddess,” from which this essay is adapted.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement