by Noel MurrayJan. 1, 2019Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are our picks for January, broken down by release date.Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are our picks for January, broken down by release date.[Not the month you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.][Not the month you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.]‘Comedians of the World’Starts streaming: January 1‘Comedians of the World’Starts streaming: January 1Netflix’s programmers have been uncommonly ambitious when it comes to the service’s slate of stand-up specials, and Netflix’s line-up of international television over the past couple of years has been been impressive too. These initiatives dovetail in “Comedians of the World,” a new series shot at over a half-dozen comedy festivals, featuring 47 different comics of widely varying backgrounds. These sets — from the United States, Canada, Mexico, India, Germany, the Middle East, and elsewhere — are presented in their original languages, with subtitles. This ought to be a fascinating experiment, testing whether jokes translate as easily as drama and action.—Netflix’s programmers have been uncommonly ambitious when it comes to the service’s slate of stand-up specials, and Netflix’s line-up of international television over the past couple of years has been been impressive too. These initiatives dovetail in “Comedians of the World,” a new series shot at over a half-dozen comedy festivals, featuring 47 different comics of widely varying backgrounds. These sets — from the United States, Canada, Mexico, India, Germany, the Middle East, and elsewhere — are presented in their original languages, with subtitles. This ought to be a fascinating experiment, testing whether jokes translate as easily as drama and action.—‘A Series of Unfortunate Events’ Season 3Starts streaming: January 1‘A Series of Unfortunate Events’ Season 3Starts streaming: January 1The last four books of Lemony Snicket’s best-selling, blackly comic young adult fantasy series “A Series of Unfortunate Events” form the spine of the final seven episodes of Netflix’s TV adaptation, which brings the small-screen adventures of the orphaned Baudelaire siblings and the nefarious Count Olaf to a close. In addition to a heavily made-up Neil Patrick Harris as Olaf, past seasons have featured guest appearances by the likes of Alfre Woodard, Don Johnson, Catherine O’Hara, and Tony Hale. This year, Richard E. Grant and Max Greenfield join this freaky party, helping to wrap up one of the weirder sagas in contemporary children’s entertainment.—The last four books of Lemony Snicket’s best-selling, blackly comic young adult fantasy series “A Series of Unfortunate Events” form the spine of the final seven episodes of Netflix’s TV adaptation, which brings the small-screen adventures of the orphaned Baudelaire siblings and the nefarious Count Olaf to a close. In addition to a heavily made-up Neil Patrick Harris as Olaf, past seasons have featured guest appearances by the likes of Alfre Woodard, Don Johnson, Catherine O’Hara, and Tony Hale. This year, Richard E. Grant and Max Greenfield join this freaky party, helping to wrap up one of the weirder sagas in contemporary children’s entertainment.—‘Tidying Up with Marie Kondo’Starts streaming: January 1‘Tidying Up with Marie Kondo’Starts streaming: January 1The lifestyle guru Marie Kondo — known for telling her followers to ask themselves whether their possessions “spark joy” — now takes her message of simplicity and pleasure from door to door, for a reality series in the mold of “Queer Eye” and “Hoarders.” With the help of a translator, the Japanese decluttering expert visits with American families feeling frustrated by all the stuff piling up, not just in their homes but in their lives. As is her wont, Kondo helps these ordinary, overwhelmed folks understand what’s really important.—The lifestyle guru Marie Kondo — known for telling her followers to ask themselves whether their possessions “spark joy” — now takes her message of simplicity and pleasure from door to door, for a reality series in the mold of “Queer Eye” and “Hoarders.” With the help of a translator, the Japanese decluttering expert visits with American families feeling frustrated by all the stuff piling up, not just in their homes but in their lives. As is her wont, Kondo helps these ordinary, overwhelmed folks understand what’s really important.—‘Titans’ Season 1Starts streaming: January 11‘Titans’ Season 1Starts streaming: January 11A much darker spin on the DC superhero universe than “The Flash” and “Supergirl,” the TV series “Titans” calls back to the grim ’n’ gritty 1980s comic book era, and to the popular “Teen Titans” franchise. The 11-episode first season retells the origin story of the super-team, following Batman’s moody former sidekick Robin (played by Brenton Thwaites) as he meets other troubled young heroes. The story comes together perhaps a bit too slowly. Nevertheless, fans of the original “Titans” comics — or even the absurdist animated cartoons based on those comics — should enjoy seeing characters like Starfire, Raven and Beast Boy in this more serious incarnation.—A much darker spin on the DC superhero universe than “The Flash” and “Supergirl,” the TV series “Titans” calls back to the grim ’n’ gritty 1980s comic book era, and to the popular “Teen Titans” franchise. The 11-episode first season retells the origin story of the super-team, following Batman’s moody former sidekick Robin (played by Brenton Thwaites) as he meets other troubled young heroes. The story comes together perhaps a bit too slowly. Nevertheless, fans of the original “Titans” comics — or even the absurdist animated cartoons based on those comics — should enjoy seeing characters like Starfire, Raven and Beast Boy in this more serious incarnation.—‘Trigger Warning with Killer Mike’Starts streaming: January 18‘Trigger Warning with Killer Mike’Starts streaming: January 18The activist rapper Killer Mike opens a window onto the way he sees the world with this screwball public affairs program, which mixes interviews with sketches and stunts. In the first six-episode season, Mike aims to challenge the audience’s perceptions by talking openly about controversial, racially charged topics, and showing how black experiences and black lives are often devalued and marginalized in mainstream culture.—The activist rapper Killer Mike opens a window onto the way he sees the world with this screwball public affairs program, which mixes interviews with sketches and stunts. In the first six-episode season, Mike aims to challenge the audience’s perceptions by talking openly about controversial, racially charged topics, and showing how black experiences and black lives are often devalued and marginalized in mainstream culture.—‘Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes’Starts streaming: January 24‘Conversations with a Killer: The Ted Bundy Tapes’Starts streaming: January 24Thirty years to the day after the serial murderer Ted Bundy was executed at Florida State Prison, Netflix presents a four-part documentary, based on 100 hours of death row interviews conducted in 1980. The series’ director Joe Berlinger also recently completed a feature-length drama about how Bundy’s girlfriend coped with the revelations that came out during his trial. That film will be debuting at Sundance in late January, a few days after this companion-piece that tells the killer’s story in his own words.—Thirty years to the day after the serial murderer Ted Bundy was executed at Florida State Prison, Netflix presents a four-part documentary, based on 100 hours of death row interviews conducted in 1980. The series’ director Joe Berlinger also recently completed a feature-length drama about how Bundy’s girlfriend coped with the revelations that came out during his trial. That film will be debuting at Sundance in late January, a few days after this companion-piece that tells the killer’s story in his own words.—[Want more Australia coverage and global insight? Sign up for our weekly Australia Letter.][Want more Australia coverage and global insight? Sign up for our weekly Australia Letter.]‘Black Earth Rising’Starts streaming: January 25‘Black Earth Rising’Starts streaming: January 25Michaela Coel and John Goodman co-star in the international legal drama “Black Earth Rising,” a complex take on contemporary geo-politics from writer-director Hugo Black. Coel plays a Rwandan refugee who’s working as an investigator for a barrister played by Goodman, and is using the case of an imprisoned military leader as a way to look into her own past. Eschewing clear heroes and villains, Black illustrates how justice can be an elusive concept whenever one nation presumes to judge the values of another.—Michaela Coel and John Goodman co-star in the international legal drama “Black Earth Rising,” a complex take on contemporary geo-politics from writer-director Hugo Black. Coel plays a Rwandan refugee who’s working as an investigator for a barrister played by Goodman, and is using the case of an imprisoned military leader as a way to look into her own past. Eschewing clear heroes and villains, Black illustrates how justice can be an elusive concept whenever one nation presumes to judge the values of another.—‘Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt’ Season 4 Part 2Starts streaming: January 25‘Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt’ Season 4 Part 2Starts streaming: January 25It’s been a little over seven months since the first half of the “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” final season debuted. Now, Netflix’s cheeriest, loopiest sitcom is coming to an end for good, with seven more episodes to wrap up the story of the eternally optimistic trauma victim Kimmy and her eccentric New York chums. In addition to the co-creators Tina Fey and Robert Carlock’s usual spoof of “plucky gal in the big city” storytelling conventions, the show’s last batch of episodes will include a double-length chapter that imagines what life would’ve been like for all these characters if Kimmy had never been kidnapped as a teenager.—It’s been a little over seven months since the first half of the “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt” final season debuted. Now, Netflix’s cheeriest, loopiest sitcom is coming to an end for good, with seven more episodes to wrap up the story of the eternally optimistic trauma victim Kimmy and her eccentric New York chums. In addition to the co-creators Tina Fey and Robert Carlock’s usual spoof of “plucky gal in the big city” storytelling conventions, the show’s last batch of episodes will include a double-length chapter that imagines what life would’ve been like for all these characters if Kimmy had never been kidnapped as a teenager.—Also of InterestAlso of Interest“Ten Percent” Season 3 (January 4), “When Heroes Fly” (January 10), “Sex Education” (January 11), “Friends from College” Season 2 (January 11), “Carmen Sandiego” (January 18), “Colony” Season 1 & 2 (January 18), “Grace and Frankie” Season 5 (January 18), “Star Trek: Discovery” Season 2 (January 18), “Justice” (January 21), “Kingdom” (January 25) and “Club de Cuervos” (January 25)“Ten Percent” Season 3 (January 4), “When Heroes Fly” (January 10), “Sex Education” (January 11), “Friends from College” Season 2 (January 11), “Carmen Sandiego” (January 18), “Colony” Season 1 & 2 (January 18), “Grace and Frankie” Season 5 (January 18), “Star Trek: Discovery” Season 2 (January 18), “Justice” (January 21), “Kingdom” (January 25) and “Club de Cuervos” (January 25)‘Game Night’Starts streaming: January 1‘Game Night’Starts streaming: January 1Although 2018 was a good year for blockbusters and Oscar-worthy dramas, it was relatively weak on traditional comedies. The major exception was “Game Night,” a cleverly plotted and often sidesplittingly funny mystery-farce, written by Mark Perez and co-directed by John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein. An all-star comic cast (including Jason Bateman, Rachel McAdams, Jesse Plemons, Sharon Horgan, and Lamorne Morris) play a gang of friends, family, and acquaintances, whose highly competitive gaming parties get disrupted when one of their group (played by Kyle Chandler) gets kidnapped. With its dark sense of humor and deadpan performances, “Game Night” is the kind of comedy fans will be watching over and over for years to come.—Although 2018 was a good year for blockbusters and Oscar-worthy dramas, it was relatively weak on traditional comedies. The major exception was “Game Night,” a cleverly plotted and often sidesplittingly funny mystery-farce, written by Mark Perez and co-directed by John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein. An all-star comic cast (including Jason Bateman, Rachel McAdams, Jesse Plemons, Sharon Horgan, and Lamorne Morris) play a gang of friends, family, and acquaintances, whose highly competitive gaming parties get disrupted when one of their group (played by Kyle Chandler) gets kidnapped. With its dark sense of humor and deadpan performances, “Game Night” is the kind of comedy fans will be watching over and over for years to come.—‘Godzilla: The Planet Eater’Starts streaming: January 9‘Godzilla: The Planet Eater’Starts streaming: January 9The Godzilla anime movie trilogy comes to a close with “The Planet Eater,” and a story which pits the fire-breathing giant lizard against the three-headed monster Ghidorah. Like the previous two films, this one is set in a futuristic dystopia, riven by cults and superstition. Also like those earlier entries, “The Planet Eater” combines a traditional-looking anime style with more three-dimensional CGI beasties, meant to resemble the Kaijū that longtime Godzilla fans know and love.—The Godzilla anime movie trilogy comes to a close with “The Planet Eater,” and a story which pits the fire-breathing giant lizard against the three-headed monster Ghidorah. Like the previous two films, this one is set in a futuristic dystopia, riven by cults and superstition. Also like those earlier entries, “The Planet Eater” combines a traditional-looking anime style with more three-dimensional CGI beasties, meant to resemble the Kaijū that longtime Godzilla fans know and love.—‘The Last Laugh’Starts streaming: January 11‘The Last Laugh’Starts streaming: January 11The writer-director Greg Pritikin takes an unusual approach to the lives and times of stand-up comedians, with a dramedy that weighs how the art form itself has changed over the decades. Richard Dreyfuss plays a comic who gave up his shot at the big-time 50 years ago. Chevy Chase plays his former manager, who in the middle of a late-life crisis asks his old friend to hit the road one more time. Similar to the Netflix series “The Kominsky Method,” “The Last Laugh” is a movie about male relationships — as business partners, as friends, and as people who’ve shared common joys and woes.—The writer-director Greg Pritikin takes an unusual approach to the lives and times of stand-up comedians, with a dramedy that weighs how the art form itself has changed over the decades. Richard Dreyfuss plays a comic who gave up his shot at the big-time 50 years ago. Chevy Chase plays his former manager, who in the middle of a late-life crisis asks his old friend to hit the road one more time. Similar to the Netflix series “The Kominsky Method,” “The Last Laugh” is a movie about male relationships — as business partners, as friends, and as people who’ve shared common joys and woes.—‘Fyre: The Greatest Party that Never Happened’Starts streaming: January 18‘Fyre: The Greatest Party that Never Happened’Starts streaming: January 18Remember the Fyre Festival? That expensive music and lifestyle event, so poorly planned and executed that it was cancelled after a few hours, leaving attendees stranded with inadequate food, water, sanitation, and security? Now the documentarian Chris Smith — best-known for the classic documentary “American Movie,” as well as “Jim & Andy: The Great Beyond” — looks back at just what went wrong, aided by copious photos and footage taken by the people who showed up at Fyre looking to party, then ended up just hoping to get out safely.—Remember the Fyre Festival? That expensive music and lifestyle event, so poorly planned and executed that it was cancelled after a few hours, leaving attendees stranded with inadequate food, water, sanitation, and security? Now the documentarian Chris Smith — best-known for the classic documentary “American Movie,” as well as “Jim & Andy: The Great Beyond” — looks back at just what went wrong, aided by copious photos and footage taken by the people who showed up at Fyre looking to party, then ended up just hoping to get out safely.—‘Senna’Starts streaming: January 18‘Senna’Starts streaming: January 18Brazilian race car driver Ayrton Senna dominated the Formula One circuit in the late 1980s and early ‘90s, before dying in a crash at age 34. Asif Kapadia’s 2010 documentary “Senna” combines pulse-pounding excerpts from those old races with interviews and archival footage, covering how racing’s old-guard worked behind the scenes to put the kibosh on Senna’s aggressive racing style and flamboyant personality. The result is a fascinating inside look at a sport with arcane codes of behavior, which don’t always mesh well with that old saying “may the best man win.”—Brazilian race car driver Ayrton Senna dominated the Formula One circuit in the late 1980s and early ‘90s, before dying in a crash at age 34. Asif Kapadia’s 2010 documentary “Senna” combines pulse-pounding excerpts from those old races with interviews and archival footage, covering how racing’s old-guard worked behind the scenes to put the kibosh on Senna’s aggressive racing style and flamboyant personality. The result is a fascinating inside look at a sport with arcane codes of behavior, which don’t always mesh well with that old saying “may the best man win.”—‘Scott Pilgrim vs. the World’Starts streaming: January 18‘Scott Pilgrim vs. the World’Starts streaming: January 18Bursting with imagination and personality, director Edgar Wright’s adaptation of the cartoonist Bryan Lee O’Malley’s “Scott Pilgrim” graphic novel series stars Michael Cera as a self-centered, not-too-bright Canadian hipster kid, who finds himself facing down all the super-powered ex-boyfriends of the woman he loves (played by Mary Elizabeth Winstead). Part superhero movie, part slacker romance, “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World” is a winning combo of quirky humor and eye-popping special effects.—Bursting with imagination and personality, director Edgar Wright’s adaptation of the cartoonist Bryan Lee O’Malley’s “Scott Pilgrim” graphic novel series stars Michael Cera as a self-centered, not-too-bright Canadian hipster kid, who finds himself facing down all the super-powered ex-boyfriends of the woman he loves (played by Mary Elizabeth Winstead). Part superhero movie, part slacker romance, “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World” is a winning combo of quirky humor and eye-popping special effects.—‘Polar’Starts streaming: January 21‘Polar’Starts streaming: January 21Mads Mikkelsen plays a retired assassin drawn back into the business in “Polar,” a new shoot-‘em-up based on a graphic novel series created by the Spanish cartoonist Victor Santos. The comics have been acclaimed for their visual style, and for the way Santos tries deliver as much action and story as possible without dialogue. Director Jonas Åkerlund — renowned for music videos like Madonna’s “Ray of Light” and Beyoncé’s “Hold Up” — should bring plenty of panache to this thriller, with the help of actress Vanessa Hudgens and a score from the EDM favorite Deadmau5.—Mads Mikkelsen plays a retired assassin drawn back into the business in “Polar,” a new shoot-‘em-up based on a graphic novel series created by the Spanish cartoonist Victor Santos. The comics have been acclaimed for their visual style, and for the way Santos tries deliver as much action and story as possible without dialogue. Director Jonas Åkerlund — renowned for music videos like Madonna’s “Ray of Light” and Beyoncé’s “Hold Up” — should bring plenty of panache to this thriller, with the help of actress Vanessa Hudgens and a score from the EDM favorite Deadmau5.—Also of InterestAlso of Interest“Cast Away” (January 1), “Lionheart” (January 4), “Solo” (January 11), “Ghostbusters” (January 12), “Revenger” (January 15), “Babe” (January 18), “IO” (January 18), “Soni” (January 18), “Animas” (January 25), “The Lincoln Lawyer” (January 26) and “The Boss Baby” (January 27)“Cast Away” (January 1), “Lionheart” (January 4), “Solo” (January 11), “Ghostbusters” (January 12), “Revenger” (January 15), “Babe” (January 18), “IO” (January 18), “Soni” (January 18), “Animas” (January 25), “The Lincoln Lawyer” (January 26) and “The Boss Baby” (January 27)Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing.