AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.MONICA GERMINO at National Sawdust (Oct. 8-9, 7 and 9 p.m.). Presented by the New York Philharmonic and National Sawdust for its United States premiere, “Muted” is a deathly quiet piece for violin and voice, written by Louis Andriessen, Michael Gordon, David Lang and Julia Wolfe for this soloist, who is highly sensitive to volume. It’s lit and staged by Floriaan Ganzevoort.646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.orgHIDEJIRO HONJOH AND THE INTERNATIONAL CONTEMPORARY ENSEMBLE at the Japan Society (Oct. 5, 7:30 p.m.). A leading young player of the samisen joins members of ICE for premieres written by Nathan Davis, Yu Kuwabara and Vijay Iyer, as well as “Yuugao no le” by Yuji Takahashi, “Neo” by Dai Fujikura and “Up and Back” by Scott Johnson.212-715-1258, japansociety.orgJONAS KAUFMANN at Carnegie Hall (Oct. 5, 8 p.m.). With Jochen Rieder conducting the Orchestra of St. Luke’s, the superstar singer reprises parts of his 2014 album, “You Mean the World to Me,” which features tunes written or adopted in interwar Germany, when radio and film made songs from cabaret, operetta and other genres famous as never before. Expect Lehár by the bucketload.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Oct. 10, 7:30 p.m.; through Oct. 13). David Robertson is on the podium for this week’s subscription program. Garrick Ohlsson joins the orchestra for Rachmaninoff’s “Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini,” and Sibelius’s Symphony No. 2 is the main work, but perhaps the most interesting music on offer is Louis Andriessen’s “TAO,” part of the Philharmonic’s continuing tribute to the composer. Synergy Vocals and Tomoko Mukaiyama lend a helping hand.212-875-5656, nyphil.org‘PLACE’ at BAM Harvey Theater (Oct. 11-13, 7:30 p.m.). Ted Hearne has made himself a vital, politically inclined composer with pieces like his oratorio about Chelsea Manning, “The Source,” and “Sound From the Bench,” a cantata decrying the corporate takeover of the Supreme Court. With a libretto by Saul Williams and directed by Patricia McGregor, his new piece thinks broadly about the political and personal nature of space.718-636-4100, bam.orgSOUND ON at the Appel Room (Oct. 7, 3 p.m.). Hosted and curated by Nadia Sirota, the Philharmonic’s creative partner, this occasional Sunday series is one of the orchestra’s several attempts to put some juice into its contemporary-music offerings. The first concert, “Going Dutch,” focuses on the music of Louis Andriessen, including his “Image de Moreau,” “Hout” and “Symphony for Open Strings,” and on the composer’s influence, with works by Martijn Padding and Vanessa Lann. Jaap van Zweden conducts.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgAdvertisement