AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead. FURTHER COMPLICATIONS FESTIVAL at Spectrum (Sept. 8, 7 p.m.). There’s a double bill of pianists at this weeklong contemporary-music festival on Saturday evening, with José Menor playing the music of Hèctor Parra at 7 p.m., including the composer’s Piano Sonata and “Cinq Études d’Art,” and Imri Talgam appearing at 8:30 p.m., with works by Conlon Nancarrow, Enno Poppe, Matthias Krüger and Yair Klartag.spectrumnyc.comHERE AND NOW SERIES at Bargemusic (Sept. 7, 8 p.m.). Here’s an early birthday party for the composer Ned Rorem, who turns 95 in October and has four works on this program. Jennifer Higdon, Daron Hagen and Troy Peters all contribute works in tribute; the clarinetist Thomas Piercy, the violinist Eiko Kano and the pianist Chen Yihan are the instrumentalists.800-838-3006, bargemusic.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Sept. 12-13, 7:30 p.m.). The Philharmonic is declaring a new era in the coming weeks, with the arrival of the incoming music director Jaap van Zweden, although it remains to be seen just how new anything could be after the tenure of Alan Gilbert. But the orchestra’s opening concerts play to type, reprising “The Art of the Score” evenings, in which the players accompany a film screening. First up, Paul Thomas Anderson’s “There Will Be Blood,” with a score by Jonny Greenwood. Hugh Brunt conducts.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgRESONANT BODIES FESTIVAL at Roulette (Sept. 11-13, 7:30 p.m.). This indispensable series has become one of the city’s most important explorations of the voice since it began in 2013. The founder Lucy Dhegrae asks artists to come up with 45-minute sets of cutting-edge music, and the results are predictably unpredictable. This year, Paul Pinto, Helga Davis and Ms. Dhegrae perform on Tuesday; Jen Shyu, Nathalie Joachim and Caroline Shaw sing on Wednesday; and Sarah Maria Sun, Gelsey Bell and Pamela Z conclude the proceedings on Thursday.resonantbodiesfestival.org/nycAdvertisement