AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Readers and listeners, we hope you have some pleasant music planned for this weekend.This week, I’ve looked to my colleague Josh Barone for reports on Yuja Wang’s concert at Zankel Hall with the music-comedy duo Igudesman & Joo, which had sketches and jokes about sex and race that Josh found troubling.He reviewed the program.But we felt there was still more to explore. So he wrote this thoughtful piece about the event and the line between satire and offense. Please read it, and let us know what you think.Coming up this weekend at the Los Angeles Philharmonic is an intriguing small festival devoted to William Grant Still and music of — and inspired by — the Harlem Renaissance. Still’s First Symphony, which will be played on Saturday, gets some play; his Fourth, set for Sunday, very little. Take a listen:Some other things to catch you up on:The conductor Daniel Harding, who’s had trouble with American orchestras, is dipping his toe in this country again. Here’s a playlist of some of his best recordings:The ensemble Blue Heron has made a specialty of nearly vanished music of the English Renaissance. Listen to what it’s uncovered:And “Rigoletto” returned to the Metropolitan Opera, to little effect. Enjoy the weekend! ZACHARY WOOLFESzymanowski’s First Violin Concerto (1916) was the oldest work on the Boston Symphony Orchestra’s program last Friday. But it felt like the most modern.That isn’t a dig against the other two pieces: Olly Wilson’s 1981 “Lumina,” and Copland’s Third Symphony, which was given its premiere by the Bostonians in 1946. But they seemed conservative compared with the Szymanowski — a restless, single-movement adventure that dances back and forth between lyricism and mayhem.The orchestra, enthusiastically conducted by Andris Nelsons, seemed almost gleeful as the concerto’s hodgepodge sonority was at its most raucous and exotic. Lisa Batiashvili, the soloist, was the calmest person onstage. Yet she was also the most thrilling to watch, and virtually flawless as she navigated her mercurial part’s taxing blend of harsh double stops, screeching high notes and soaring melodies. JOSHUA BARONEThe baritone Gerald Finley may be best known for creating the role of the ambitious, tormented J. Robert Oppenheimer in John Adams’s 2005 opera “Doctor Atomic.” His latest appearance at the Met was in the title role of Bartok’s “Bluebeard’s Castle.” It was chilling to witness Mr. Finley, with his warm, robust voice, bringing such subdued malevolence to the murderous Bluebeard. I was reminded of a completely different triumph for Mr. Finley at the Met, in the title role of Rossini’s masterpiece “Guillaume Tell” in 2016. Here he is in a poignant excerpt from the Act III aria “Sois immobile,” when Tell, who has been arrested, is ordered to shoot an arrow into an apple balanced on the head of his beloved son. He instructs the young man to stay completely still while calling upon God. Mr. Finlay conveys an aching mix of outward assurance and inner panic. ANTHONY TOMMASINIAdvertisement