AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken JaworowskiGiddy with in-jokes, meta-moments and quick asides, “Teen Titans Go! To the Movies” is funny enough that you may just forgive its annoyingly placed exclamation point.Based on a Cartoon Network series derived from a DC comic book, the animated comedy features a team of adolescent superheroes led by Robin (Scott Menville), that perennial second-fiddle to Batman. Frustrated by his subordinate status, he enlists his cohorts — Beast Boy (Greg Cipes), Cyborg (Khary Payton), Raven (Tara Strong) and Starfire (Hynden Walch) — to find a deadly villain to fight. If he conquers evil he’ll earn respect, Robin figures. Far more important, he’ll get a movie deal.It’s an amusing tale for young audiences, ending with the expected messages about friendship and courage. But there are delights for adults as well, particularly in the first half, with sendups of various comic book series (some aimed at DC’s own arch-nemesis, Marvel) and an extra-large supply of spoofs on other movies.“Deadpool” and “Green Lantern” are satirized, while “Batman” and fellow franchises are lampooned for their catchphrases, special effects and sequels. Older references are also checked: Marlon Brando’s role in the 1978 “Superman” is remembered with affection; “Back to the Future” is called on for a quick laugh, as is “The Lion King.”The prevailing attitude is feisty rather than snide, with music thrown in, too: the cheeky “Upbeat Inspirational Song About Life,” sung by Michael Bolton, is among the cleverest moments. Kristen Bell, Jimmy Kimmel and Nicolas Cage voice assorted characters (with Mr. Cage as Superman, a role he once planned to play in a project that fell apart — another insider joke here), while Stan Lee, the Marvel Comics legend, makes a few cameos.As the action progresses, the gags diminish. Just after the halfway point, “Teen Titans,” directed by Aaron Horvath and Peter Rida Michail, starts racing to wrap up its story lines. That’s probably wise. The movie’s best parts aren’t in the plot, anyway — they’re in the parodies.Movie data powered by IMDb.comRated PG. Running time: 1 hour 28 minutes.OpinionMark BowdenAdvertisement