AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘THE FORCE OF THINGS: AN OPERA FOR OBJECTS’ at Gelsey Kirkland Arts Center (Aug. 6-8, 6:30 and 8:30 p.m.). Ashley Fure’s piece, created with her architect brother, Adam Fure, finally arrives in New York with six performances as part of Mostly Mozart. Ms. Fure, who trained at Harvard and Ircam and teaches at Dartmouth, writes music of extraordinary tension and potency, looking for sounds in unlikely places and treating them with rigor. The International Contemporary Ensemble provides the players, and Lucy Dhegrae and Lisa E. Harris are the singers.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalINTERNATIONAL CONTEMPORARY ENSEMBLE at the David Rubenstein Atrium (Aug. 9, 7:30 p.m.). Michael Pisaro’s “A Wave and Waves,” dating from 2007, catches its listeners in a grid of 100 performers, slowly dragging them down into the deep. A second, later performance was canceled, and very few seats are available, so come early to pick your spot for this free concert.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalPAUL LEWIS at the Stanley H. Kaplan Penthouse (Aug. 4, 10 p.m.). Try for returns to this supreme British pianist’s sold-out, late-night Mostly Mozart recital. It’s wholly Haydn, featuring three of the piano sonatas. Mr. Lewis’s recent recording of this music, released on Harmonia Mundi, is notable for the sincerity it lavishes on works often treated too lightly — preludes to Mozart and, later, Beethoven.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalMOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA at David Geffen Hall (Aug. 3-4 and 7-8, 7:30 p.m.). In this week’s concerts from Mostly Mozart’s house band, there’s one program that’s entirely Mozart and one that’s just a little bit. On Friday and Saturday, Christian Zacharias, a particularly refined Mozartean, leads the orchestra in the Symphony No. 38, directs from the keyboard in the Piano Concerto No. 25 and conducts in support of the soprano Rosa Feola in two concert arias, “Ch’io mi scordi di te” and “Bella mia fiamma.” On Tuesday and Wednesday, the festival’s music director, Louis Langrée, returns, with John Adams’s “The Chairman Dances,” Beethoven’s Symphony No. 1 and Mozart’s Violin Concerto No. 3. Daniel Lozakovich, who is only 17, is the soloist.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalNEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG at the Stanley H. Kaplan Penthouse (Aug. 8, 10 p.m.). N.Y.F.O.S., a New York institution, joins forces with Mostly Mozart for this late-night concert, which looks at Shakespeare’s influence on music. The actress Kathleen Chalfant gives readings, while Naomi Louisa O’Connell and Matt Boehler sing songs by everyone from Vaughan Williams and Finzi to Stephen Sondheim. Steven Blier is the pianist and host.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalAdvertisement