AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.MIRANDA CUCKSON AND ETHAN IVERSON at Spectrum (June 24, 7 p.m.). A tireless advocate of new music for violin and a jazz pianist and composer join forces for this program of solo and duo works, as part of the ongoing Modern Piano (+) Festival. Alone, Ms. Cuckson plays Donald Martino’s “Romanza,” three of Salvatore Sciarrino’s “Six Caprices” and Josiah Catalan’s “Aperture Perpetuum.” Mr. Iverson contributes original jazz pieces. Together, they play violin sonatas by Louise Talma and George Walker.spectrumnyc.comKRONOS QUARTET AND SOO YEON LYUH at the 92nd Street Y (June 28, 8 p.m.). Ever versatile, ever exploring, the Kronos Quartet partners with a player of the South Korean haegeum — a fiddle of sorts — for a concert presented by the World Music Institute and the Korean Cultural Center New York. As well as playing Ms. Lyuh’s “Yessori,” which the Kronos commissioned, the quartet plays five other arrangements of music from around the world; Ms. Lyuh, accompanied by Dawool Park, gives a solo set too.212-415-5500, 92y.orgORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA at the Naumburg Bandshell (June 26, 7:30 p.m.). The venerable summer series at the bandshell in Central Park is up and running, and picks up pace with this appearance of Orpheus. The program is perhaps most notable for the rare performance of the music of Othmar Schoeck, a Swiss composer working in the latest of late Romantic idioms. His “Sommernacht” is played here, along with an arrangement of Mendelssohn’s music for “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” and Mahler’s arrangement of Beethoven’s “Serioso” Quartet.naumburgconcerts.org‘TIME’S ARROW: WEBERN PART 2’ at St. Paul’s Chapel (June 23, 1 p.m.). Trinity Wall Street’s important Webern festival concludes with this Saturday lunchtime concert. Two early orchestral works are featured, the Passacaglia and “Im Sommerwind,” as well as the Cantata No. 2. But Webern is, in some ways, not the main event. Instead, there’s Brahms, still an underrated influence on the Second Viennese School, with “A German Requiem.” Julian Wachner conducts Novus NY, the Choir of Trinity Wall Street and Downtown Voices; Colleen Daly and Stephen Salters are the vocal soloists. Note, too, an organ recital from Avi Stein on Friday at 1 p.m., looking at interwar works by Messiaen, Janacek, Hindemith and others.212-602-0800, trinitywallstreet.org/music-artsAdvertisement