AdvertisementSupported byThe ShortlistBy John WilliamsTHE FROLIC OF THE BEASTS By Yukio Mishima Translated by Andrew Clare 166 pp. Vintage International. Paper, $15.This short novel by one of the most acclaimed writers of the 20th century was originally published in Japanese in 1961. It revolves around a love triangle so misshapen that it’s essentially a horror story.It begins with a young man named Koji being released from prison. Two years before, when he was a 21-year-old student, Koji had been hired to help a man named Ippei at a ceramics shop. Ippei, the 40-year-old owner of the shop, is also a literary critic and translator. The younger man falls in love with Ippei’s wife, Yuko, and begins an affair with her.One night, after Yuko and Koji walk in on Ippei and a lover, Koji ends up assaulting Ippei, bashing his head with a wrench.That’s the relatively normal part.When Koji is released from jail, Yuko takes him back under her wing. She is “censured for her rashness by the prison governor, who said he had never before heard of a case where a member of the victim’s family had become the criminal’s guarantor.” She brings him back into the orbit of her husband, who now has trouble communicating because of his injuries from the attack.“After two years of anguish, each of them had, perhaps, finally found happiness,” Mishima writes. “Yuko had Ippei exactly as she wanted him, Koji had his freedom, and, as for Ippei, he had something very peculiar.” What exactly does Ippei have? For the villagers (and for the readers) “there was pleasure in guessing how their immoral behavior would turn out.”The novel’s plot isn’t really enough to sustain even its relatively brief length, and there’s a slackness to certain scenes that’s missing in Mishima’s other work.But two primary things make this book worthwhile. First, it may be a minor work, but Mishima is a giant, and even the minor works of giants are inherently interesting. Second, the uniquely askew relationships at the center of the story mean that its most riveting scenes are well and truly riveting; unforgettable, even. There is a macabre fascination, tinged with pitch-black humor, in Koji’s meeting Ippei again after he is released from prison. And in a shocking moment when Yuko kisses Koji in front of her bewildered husband, there is the unveiling of a profound cruelty.THE CAKE TREE IN THE RUINS By Akiyuki Nosaka Translated by Ginny Tapley Takemori 157 pp. Pushkin Press. Paper, $18.All of the fable-like stories collected here begin with the same line: “The 15th of August 1945.” That was the day Japan announced its surrender to the Allied forces, effectively ending World War II.One doesn’t have to strain to see the effect of Nosaka’s biography on his work. When the United States firebombed Kobe, Japan, in 1945, Nosaka lost his adoptive parents in the carnage, and in the aftermath eventually watched his infant sister die of starvation. (Nosaka is best known for “Grave of the Fireflies,” a 1967 story about orphaned siblings in the final months of the war. It was adapted into an anime film in 1988.)In one story, a boy hides in an air-raid shelter with his parrot after his mother has been killed in a bombing that destroyed their entire neighborhood. In the title story, children form gangs to scavenge for vegetables in the ruins.We meet a talking turtle and a lovelorn whale that mistakes a submarine for a potential mate. The surface of these details can seem magical, but without fail they give way to the darkest realities. Adults, animals and children die in these stories with an austere matter-of-factness.The stories are mostly told in a distant-gazing narration with shades of “once upon a time,” but Nosaka occasionally breaks the spell with a direct address: “Too many undernourished people and animals appear in these stories, I know, but it was wartime, after all.”The sum experience of reading these war reports in fairy-tale disguise is devastating. At the same time, there’s a tension in the tone that can be distracting. These stories are most decidedly not for children. But as potent and moving as some of them are, it’s difficult to not occasionally sense Nosaka’s own trauma overpowering the literary effects. There’s an emotional nakedness here, almost a reversion to childhood that is both completely understandable and often wrenching, but at times an impediment to really falling into these stories. You alternate between being dazzled by this author and simply feeling deeply sorry for him.TODDLER-HUNTING And Other Stories By Taeko Kono Translated by Lucy North, with an additional translation by Lucy Lower 274 pp. New Directions. Paper, $16.95.It does a disservice to this collection of stories, which were originally published throughout the 1960s, to focus too much on its flashes of sadomasochism; but it’s difficult not to start there. As nonchalantly as another author might describe a character’s hair color, Kono introduces her characters’ taboo desires.In one story, a bit of routine dialogue is followed by this observation: “Fukuko liked physical pain during sex, and Murao willingly complied.” In another, a man asks a woman to “prepare a testimonial,” so that if he kills her during sex, he can “prove it was an accident.” The woman replies: “All right, don’t worry. I’ll do it.”Couples engage in threesomes, and contemplate foursomes. In the opening story, “Night Journey,” a woman and her husband are foiled in their attempt to meet another couple for a night of possible erotic exploration. The woman pictures now walking with her husband “on and on until they became the perpetrators — or the victims — of some unpredictable crime.”Kono’s women also tend to be ambivalent, at best, about the idea of children. (“Akiko now felt at ease knowing that having a baby was out of the question for her body — when this fact came to mind, she felt an emotion close to joy.”)But the pleasure in Kono’s work is not only, or even primarily, derived from its daring. These stories are also captivating in traditional ways. “Snow” is the psychological portrait of a woman who gets migraines when it snows, a malady she inherited from her mother, who suffered the headaches for reasons that are traumatic and brilliantly revealed.The first two pages of the title story introduce the main character in a way that makes you want a novel built around her. She is a woman who finds little girls repulsive, to the point where she “could not bear to remember that she herself” had once been one, but enjoys buying clothes for very young boys so she can watch them awkwardly put them on and take them off. Like all of Kono’s characters, she invites our deep and sustained interest but remains ultimately irreducible.John Williams is the daily books editor and a staff writer at The Times.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement