AdvertisementSupported byChildren’s BooksBy Candace FlemingI recently read about an elementary school class that was studying the American Revolution. Each student chose a historical figure to write about. When the teacher asked if anyone had picked a woman, a little girl called out: “No! There were no women then!” Even in 2019 this is what many kids think, which is why we still need a month dedicated to the words and deeds of females. Knowing the challenges and achievements of all manner of women history makers, from the big names (I’m looking at you, Amelia Earhart) to the unsung heroes, destroys the false notion that females are mere observers to history. Their stories serve as both inspiration and empowerment: If she could, then I can.PLANTING STORIES: The Life of Librarian and Storyteller Pura Belpré (HarperCollins, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8) beautifully captures the life and essence of Pura Belpré, the first Puerto Rican librarian in New York City. Arriving in Manhattan with the “stories her abuela taught her,” Belpré eventually takes a job at the library as a bilingual assistant. “But where are her abuela’s stories? Not one folk tale from Puerto Rico is on the shelves. How lucky for the library that Pura has story seeds ready to plant and grow.” Belpré goes on to transform library programs through the telling (and eventual publishing) of several culturally diverse stories.Anika Aldamuy Denise’s intimate telling captures the magical, folk-tale feeling of Belpré’s own stories. Her lyrical text, sprinkled like fairy dust with Spanish words, begs to be read aloud, while Paola Escobar’s stylishly detailed and warmly expressive illustrations capture the joy of sharing stories. But this biography, like all good biographies, does not simply chronicle a life. Beneath all the fun is a valuable message. As Denise writes in her author’s note, Belpré’s life is a “testament to the power of our own stories to build bridges — not just to literacy, but to social change.”Powerful females are not a modern invention. They’ve always been with us, chipping away at society’s restraints and influencing history. Young readers will discover this when they read about Anna Atkins, the subject of Fiona Robinson’s THE BLUEST OF BLUES: Anna Atkins and the First Book of Photographs (Abrams, 48 pp., $17.99; ages 6 to 9). Anna is raised by her scientist father, who does not believe gender should limit accomplishment. Not only does he provide Anna with an extraordinary education, but he also encourages her to wonder, question and experiment. And so readers watch Anna grow — with each page turn of this elegantly designed book — from a curious child gathering buttercups in an English meadow in 1807 to a learned botanist who collects, records and renders exquisite and detailed scientific drawings. “But when will she get to share her knowledge of the natural world with the scientific community?” Robinson writes. On this question hangs Anna’s greatest achievement. Barred from the Royal Society of London because she is a woman, Anna finds a way around the limits imposed by society, eventually publishing the world’s first photography book in 1843.Robinson cleverly renders her illustrations almost exclusively in the cool blue of Anna’s cyanotype photographs. This gives the book a dreamlike quality; Anna’s world feels misty and faded. In fact, much of what we know about Anna has been lost to history. In her author’s note Robinson admits to creating scenes in the first part of the story because of this. This elaboration, of course, makes the book historical fiction, rather than biography. But it is Anna’s deeds that matter here. Her life is one worth knowing. Robinson’s book is one worth reading.Wilma Mankiller, who died in 2010, was the first woman chief of the Cherokee Nation, and as most women do who rise to elevated leadership roles, she scrapped and struggled to get there. In WILMA’S WAY HOME: The Life of Wilma Mankiller (Disney-Hyperion, 48 pp., $17.99; ages 7 to 10), Doreen Rappaport and Linda Kukuk unfurl Mankiller’s evolution from “dirt poor” child growing up in a society that devalues Native culture into an exemplar of leadership and strength. It is a detailed account, lovingly rendered in Kukuk’s occasionally awkward but enthusiastic artwork, and skillfully told in Rappaport’s clear and accessible prose. But it is the use of Mankiller’s own words, woven throughout the text, that makes this book soar. Hearing her voice gives us a sense of the real woman. When Mankiller says, “Women can help turn the world right side up,” her sincerity resonates, and we can’t help nodding at the wisdom of her words.From the first sentence of OUT OF THIS WORLD: The Surreal Art of Leonora Carrington (Balzer + Bray, 40 pp., $17.99; ages 4 to 8), written by Michelle Markel and illustrated by Amanda Hall, readers know that the artist Leonora Carrington is a rebel. “Leonora’s parents wanted her to be like every other well-bred English girl,” Markel writes. “But she was not.” Boarding schools and debutante balls could not quash Leonora’s artist spirit, and she heads to art school, then off to Paris and into the orbit of the Surrealists. But it isn’t until she flees to Mexico ahead of the Nazis that Leonora discovers her true artistic voice. Wisely, Hall chooses not to recreate Carrington’s art (which can be brooding and sexually suggestive). Instead, she creates bright, busy spreads filled with enchantment. Hyenas sport wild, black manes (much like Leonora’s own hair). Tortoises peek from pockets. Green potions bubble.Markel’s telling — evocative and poetic — feels enchanted, too, even if she does occasionally overstate for effect: “Leonora and the other female Surrealists … had no interest in painting women who looked like pretty decorations, as men had done for centuries.” One could argue that artists from Rembrandt to Goya to Millet depicted women as they lived and worked, not just as ornaments. But the author’s point is understood. Carrington’s depiction of women is singular. And Markel’s gorgeous description of Carrington’s paintings is the perfect summation of the extraordinariness found in all females: In them, “women have special gifts; they can do things beyond anybody’s wildest dreams — which is marvelous, and it’s powerful, and it’s true.”Candace Fleming’s latest Y.A. biography, “The Rise and Fall of Charles Lindbergh,” will be published next year.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement