AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Big news for opera fans: The Metropolitan Opera’s grand, classic, very traditional but very delightful production of Verdi’s “Aida” is saying farewell. [Read about the final run of the Met’s “Aida.”]There will be just two more performances, on March 4 and 7. When the opera returns, it’ll be to open the 2020-21 season in a new staging by Michael Mayer, of the Met’s Rat Pack “Rigoletto.” (The “Aida” cast looks incredible: Anna Netrebko, Anita Rachvelishvili, Piotr Beczala and Ludovic Tézier, conducted by Yannick Nézet-Séguin.)Other things this week:— Josh Barone revisited John Adams’s recent opera “Girls of the Golden West” in Amsterdam.— Accusations of bullying threaten Daniel Barenboim’s previously sacrosanct position in the Berlin music scene.— Nate Wooley makes amazing music.— Hear seven of the best works from the middle of the last century, a sadly neglected period in American music.— Reviews of “Falstaff” at the Met, a virtuosic pianist and the tenor Matthew Polenzani. (Gotta love a singer who programs Janacek’s “Diary of One Who Disappeared.”)In a tweet, the composer Nico Muhly yanked me in the direction of Alexandre Tharaud’s recording of Rameau keyboard works, which I listened to and promptly recommended to everyone I know. You need to hear this strange and glorious recording!Enjoy the weekend. ZACHARY WOOLFEAs if the list of stellar pianists still in their 20s and early 30s weren’t long enough, here’s another name to add to it. Beatrice Rana, 26, should probably already be on the list, to be fair, with a handful of strong recordings including a “Goldberg” Variations that I named as one of the releases of the year in 2017. But she’s only now making her way around the recital circuit, with a debut to come on March 12 at Carnegie Hall. I heard the program she’ll play there this past Wednesday, as part of the Celebrity Series of Boston. Agosti’s transcription of Stravinsky’s “The Firebird” had all the virtuosic flair that you’d expect, but never for its own sake; Ravel’s “Miroirs” were as polished as pearls, each blessed by uncommon sensitivity of touch; and if I was never quite convinced by her meditative take on Chopin’s Op. 25 Études, it always intrigued. One to watch. DAVID ALLENAdvertisement