AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.SUSANA BACA at Sony Hall (Feb. 12, 8 p.m.). This 74-year-old Peruvian singer-songwriter started her career as an ethnomusicologist, specifically focusing on Afro-Peruvian culture. But when David Byrne featured her recording “Maria Lando” on his 1995 compilation “Soul of Black Peru,” she was thrust upon the international stage. Since, she has recorded six albums for his Luaka Bop label and won two Latin Grammys. Baca’s repertoire includes both traditional Peruvian songs and her own originals, but the sound is consistent thanks to her ensemble’s elegant acoustic instrumentation and her superlative, powerful voice. 212-997-5123, sonyhall.comANITA BAKER at Radio City Music Hall (Feb. 13-14, 8 p.m.). At 61, this R&B legend concluded what was billed as her farewell tour in 2018 with a star-studded finale in September that included appearances by Stevie Wonder, Lalah Hathaway and Kelly Rowland. Thankfully for fans, she’s back with this two-night run at Radio City. The “Giving You the Best That I Got” singer’s roster of hits may have helped define the quiet storm era, which started in the 1970s, but at recent live shows, she has sounded as vital and captivating as ever. 212-465-6000, radiocity.comTALIB KWELI at the BRIC House Ballroom (Feb. 14, 8 p.m.). A Brooklyn native, this rapper gives an interesting spin to Valentine’s Day concerts: His is a love letter to his home borough. Brooklyn — specifically Park Slope, where Kweli grew up, and Fort Greene, where this concert will take place — has changed dramatically since he first rose to prominence in the late 1990s as half of Black Star, which he formed with the M.C. Yasiin Bey (then known as Mos Def), a fellow Brooklynite. Kweli’s message, though, has remained the same: He’s still using his technical mastery to push for social and political reform in Brooklyn and beyond. 718-683-5600, bricartsmedia.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]LIFE AND DEATH X SÓNAR at the Avant Gardner (Feb. 8, 10 p.m.). The influential electronic music label Life and Death is partnering with the Spanish festival Sónar to curate a night of D.J.s from around the world at this multiroom Brooklyn club. The lineup includes Life and Death’s co-founder, D.J. Tennis (a.k.a. Manfredi Romano), who specializes in techno; the Los Angeles-based producer Daedelus, who makes experimental electronic music; the London-based house D.J. Call Super; and the Israeli D.J. Mor Elian, whose recent work skews toward electro and ambient music. 347-987-3146, avant-gardner.comSARAH SHOOK & THE DISARMERS at the Knitting Factory (Feb. 14, 8 p.m.). With a rare combination of deft, classic country sounds and plain-spoken storytelling, Shook bucks both Nashville’s mainstream and the overly self-aware Americana scene. The twist comes from Shook’s unconventionally compelling voice, which is low, steady and a little nasal, recalling Appalachian yodeling but with a grungy edge. Plentiful slide guitar and a reliance on barn-dance-ready shuffle rhythms ground the songs in tradition, and the execution is sharp enough that the band’s old-school approach is convincing, a believable transformation of country’s vintage melancholy. 347-529-6696, knittingfactory.comSHARON VAN ETTEN at the Beacon Theater (Feb. 9, 8 p.m.). Van Etten’s new album, “Remind Me Tomorrow,” is receiving rave reviews, thanks in part to the New Jersey-bred singer-songwriter’s fairly dramatic stylistic shift. On her most recent releases, her confessional, poetic songs are bolstered by a slew of different electronic effects and synths instead of basic rock instrumentation. “I found that I was more drawn to the darkness and the driven synths and the syncopated beats,” she told The New York Times last month. The elaborate production, though, does little to obscure her music’s potent vulnerability.212-465-6000, beacontheatre.comNATALIE WEINERCLAUDIA ACUÑA at the Birdland Theater (through Feb. 9, 7 and 9:45 p.m.). Last week Acuña released “Turning Pages,” her first album in a decade and her first to consist of mostly original tunes. It finds the Chilean-born vocalist luxuriating in the breadth of her powers, whether covering Abbey Lincoln or unveiling her own compositions; she’s equal parts taut rhythm, flowing largess (think Cassandra Wilson in the 1990s) and sky-seeking mountain folk. Acuña performs songs from that album here with her band, featuring Juancho Herrera on guitar, Pablo Vergara on keyboard, Carlos Henderson on bass and Yayo Serka on drums.212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.comITAMAR BOROCHOV at Nublu 151 (Feb. 13, 9 p.m.). An Israeli-born trumpeter, Borochov plays contemporary jazz that’s easy to enjoy. His melodies are direct and often plangent, his harmonies and rhythms sturdy and repetitious. His latest album, “Blue Nights,” draws together influences from the Middle East and North Africa with jazz-academy thinking. He performs here, using his signature quarter-tone trumpet (a custom instrument that allows him to play more fluidly in Middle Eastern modes), with Rob Clearfield on keyboard, Sam Weber on bass and Jay Sawyer on drums. The North African folk band Innov Gnawa, which was featured on one track on “Blue Nights,” will appear as special guests.nublu.netDEE DEE BRIDGEWATER at 92nd Street Y (Feb. 14, 7:30 p.m.). A recently minted National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master, Bridgewater is one of jazz’s most beloved straight-ahead veterans of the 1970s and ’80s, with a style that’s rooted in theater; she carries forth the storytelling legacies of Dinah Washington and Nancy Wilson. Her most recent album, “Memphis,” is a homage to the soul music of the city where she was born, but at this Valentine’s Day concert — joined by her typical backing trio of the pianist Carmen Staaf, the bassist Tabari Lake and the drummer Tyson Jackson — expect a more standard serving of romantic jazz fare.212-415-5500, 92y.orgRUDRESH MAHANTHAPPA’S INDO-PAK COALITION at the Miller Theater (Feb. 9, 8 p.m.). Mahanthappa, an alto saxophonist, has been working with his Indo-Pak Coalition for long enough now that the group is starting to subtly outgrow the initial mission statement. They are no longer simply jazz improvisers combining musical traditions from across the Indian subcontinent. The trio — which also includes the guitarist Rez Abbasi and the drummer and tabla player Dan Weiss — has the restless, unboxable rapport of musicians broadly exploring musical sounds and strategies, with Indian classical as its launchpad.212-854-7799, millertheatre.comTHUNDERCAT at the Blue Note (Feb. 12-14, 8 and 10:30 p.m.; through Feb. 17). Thundercat, a six-string-electric-bass wunderkind and merry prankster, might be the most hopelessly enjoyable artist currently making music in jazz’s crossover territory. He will do a six-night run in the coming week, welcoming a range of unannounced special guests throughout. Expect wry, hilarious non sequiturs muttered in between songs — like “Them Changes” and “Show You the Way” — that will be full of elastic funk grooves and blistering bass solos. Thundercat, whose birth name is Stephen Bruner, has been improving his vocal chops recently; his singing still has an unpretentious, conversational allure, but now there’s more body and breath behind it.212-475-8592, bluenote.netWING WALKER ORCHESTRA AND BRIAN KROCK’S LIDDLE at Threes Brewing Gowanus (Feb. 12, 8 p.m.). Led by the young multi-reedist Drew Williams, the Wing Walker Orchestra is about to release a remarkable debut album, “Hazel.” The music stays tightly woven, even as Williams switches up the grooves and harmonic palettes constantly; there’s almost always a sharp, biting cadence coming from some part of the band (though not necessarily the rhythm section). The group shares this bill with Liddle, a combo fronted by the alto saxophonist Brian Krock, playing music that draws in equal measure from Charlie Parker, Anthony Braxton and Battles — putting checkered rock rhythms underneath pelting, hard-edge melodies. 718-522-2110, threesbrewing.comGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOAdvertisement