AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.TAKA KIGAWA at Spectrum (July 1, 7 p.m.). Concluding Spectrum’s Modern Piano (+) Festival, this adventurous pianist plays Boulez’s Piano Sonata No. 2, an immense act of destruction and creativity composed immediately after the Second World War. When Mr. Kigawa played the same work in 2014, as part of a concert of Boulez’s complete piano music, my colleague Zachary Woolfe heard a remarkable delicacy in a work that can sound dry and harsh.spectrumnyc.comORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE’S at Caramoor (June 30, 8 p.m.). Ludovic Morlot, the outgoing music director of the Seattle Symphony, leads the Orchestra of St. Luke’s in a program primarily made up of Tchaikovsky, including the “Romeo and Juliet” overture and the Violin Concerto, played by the suave young soloist Benjamin Beilman. But there’s also Smetana’s “Dance of the Comedians” and the intriguing New York premiere of Matthew Aucoin’s “Evidence.” If you fancy making a weekend of it, on Sunday at 4 p.m. there’s also a free outdoor performance of John Luther Adams’s percussion masterpiece, “Inuksuit.”914-232-1252, caramoor.orgJOHN ZORN at National Sawdust (June 29, 7 and 10 p.m.; June 30, 7 p.m.). It’s Hildegard Month at National Sawdust, a celebration of women’s contributions to music and the arts. Mr. Zorn celebrates with three concerts of his own music. In Friday’s earlier concert, there are three works that nod to notable female influences: “Die Traumdeutung,” a premiere in tribute to the abstract artist Hilma af Klint; “Redbird,” dedicated to Agnes Martin; and “The Holy Visions,” inspired by Hildegard herself. Later that night, Mr. Zorn conducts scores to films by Maya Deren, Marie Menken and Raha Raissnia. And on Saturday, there is a performance of “Cobra,” one of Mr. Zorn’s game pieces, played here by instrumentalists including Zeena Parkins, Annie Gosfield and more.646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.orgAdvertisement