AdvertisementSupported byThe Oscars, a new history of Northern Ireland, Isaac Mizrahi and more.We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:This week, the author Meg Wolitzer writes about the experience of seeing one of her characters come to life on the screen. Her novel “The Wife” is the basis of an Oscar-nominated film of the same name, with Glenn Close playing the lead role. As Wolitzer puts it, “As soon as I saw the face of this actress, I felt as if I were watching a home movie I hadn’t known existed.” We put together a reading guide inspired by many of the nominated movies and a list of books for film buffs and novices alike.Gal Beckerman, an editor at the Book Review, reviews two new books that explore the benefits of tuning out: “How to Disappear,” by Akiko Busch, and “Silence,” by Jane Brox.Beckerman also appears on the Book Review’s podcast this week to discuss those two books. And Steve Luxenberg talks about “Separate: The Story of Plessy v. Ferguson, and America’s Journey From Slavery to Segregation.”The iconic illustrator and artist, whose books never shied away from introducing children to the darker sides of life, died earlier this month at 87. Our children’s books editor, Maria Russo, writes: “There’s nothing out there like Ungerer’s books any more. Maybe that’s because no one else is willing to pull the mask back on the grown-ups — their wars, their lies, their needless aggressions — with quite as much gleeful honesty.”“For me literature is most effective when it’s sort of plain,” the fashion designer and author Isaac Mizrahi says in this week’s By the Book. “Style is suspicious to me in general. I think that’s true about my taste in everything. Food. Décor. Clothes.”In “Say Nothing: A True Story of Murder and Memory in Northern Ireland,” the journalist Patrick Radden Keefe uses the 1972 abduction of a Belfast mother of 10 to tell the story of the Troubles. The Times’s critic Jennifer Szalai calls the book “resolutely humane” and “meticulously reported.” The Irish novelist Roddy Doyle says that Keefe’s book “has lots of the qualities of good fiction.”Dwight Garner reviews the former F.B.I. deputy director Andrew McCabe’s memoir, “The Threat: How the F.B.I. Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump.” McCabe was fired last year. He may have been “driven out of Dodge," Garner writes, but he has “returned with a memoir that’s better than any book typed this quickly has a right to be.”Parul Sehgal considers “Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments,” by Saidiya Hartman, an “exhilarating social history” about young black women in the early 20th century who tossed out the narrow scripts about intimacy they had been given. And Janet Maslin loves “The Border,” the final volume of Don Winslow’s Cartel trilogy, writing: “Winslow means to journey deep into a new kind of hell this time, and to suggest that his readers recognize the sensation. This is a book for dark, rudderless times, an immersion into fear and chaos.”Advertisement