AdvertisementSupported byBy Tacey RychterDid you know The New York Times publishes close to 30 film reviews each week?Every month, we’ll curate the most relevant and interesting reviews specifically for our Australian audience, based on the local release dates. You can always read more movie reviews from The New York Times here.[Prefer not to go out? Check out our Australian Netflix guide for August.]Starring: Whitney Houston, Bobbi Kristina Brown, Bobby Brown, Cissy Houston, Robyn CrawfordDirected by: Kevin MacdonaldWhat is it? Through rare footage and one-on-one interviews, this documentary urges you to consider Whitney Houston’s life and private suffering anew.You’ll like it if you liked: “Whitney: Can I Be Me,” another Whitney Houston documentary that came out last year, but you wished for less sensationalism.Critic’s take: “‘Whitney’ is too funereal to be a party, too sad, strange and dismaying to cheer.”Australian release date: July 26Read the full review by Wesley Morris. Starring: Tom Cruise, Henry Cavill, Ving Rhames, Simon Pegg, Rebecca FergusonDirected by: Christopher McQuarrieWhat is it? Tom Cruise returns as the human cliffhanger and special operative Ethan Hunt to save the world (for the sixth time).You’ll like it if you like: The added anxiety of knowing Mr. Cruise is doing his own hair-raising stunts — from the airborne to the underwater.Critic’s take: “Mr. Cruise is now 56, and while obviously fitter than most mortals, he looks closer to his age than ever. Age is the one thing that he can’t control, which works for the character, making Ethan a touch more vulnerable.”Australian release date: Aug. 2Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.Starring: Laia Artigas, Paula Robles, Bruna Cusí, David Verdaguer, Fermí ReixachDirected by: Carla SimónWhat is it? During a sun-dappled summer in the Catalonian countryside, a newly orphaned 6-year-old girl is transplanted from her Barcelona apartment to the rural home of her aunt and uncle.Critic’s take: “‘Summer 1993’ balances delicately on the aftermath of a tragedy, but its tone is far from dismal.”Bonus fact: This film is the director’s autobiographical debut.Australian release date: Aug. 2Read the full review by Jeannette Catsoulis.Starring: Saoirse Ronan, Emily Watson, Anne-Marie Duff, Billy Howle, Samuel WestDirected by: Dominic CookeWhat is it? In this movie based on the novel by Ian McEwan, two British newlyweds work up the nerve to consummate their marriage in a seaside hotel.You’ll like it if you liked: “Enduring Love” or “Atonement,” two other McEwan adaptations.Critic’s take: “Ms. Ronan may be the keenest, subtlest, smartest actress under 30 working in movies today, and while Mr. Howle’s is a less familiar face, it is one of those faces you can’t stop observing.”Australian release date: Aug. 9Read the full review by A.O. Scott. Starring: Diane Keaton, Jane Fonda, Candice Bergen, Mary Steenburgen, Andy GarciaDirected by: Bill HoldermanWhat is it? A chardonnay-soaked comedy about four older women who pursue mild romantic misadventures after reading “Fifty Shades of Grey.”Critic’s take: “There will be wine in every paragraph of this review, as there is wine in nearly every scene of this film.”Australian release date: Aug. 23Read the full review by A.O. Scott.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Advertisement