AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergThis is a select list of noteworthy films due this fall. Release dates are subject to change.Read more listings for art, dance, classical music, pop music, television and theater. Add events directly to your calendar.GARRY WINOGRAND: ALL THINGS ARE PHOTOGRAPHABLE The photographer (1928-84), who recorded middle-class life in New York City with “a fanatical vigor,” as Holland Cotter once wrote in The New York Times, is remembered in a documentary that argues for his vitality as an artist.ASSASSINATION NATION A teenage-centered, midnight movie update of late-17th-century hysteria: a hacker reveals the secrets of a town called Salem. Odessa Young, the singer Abra and Suki Waterhouse star.CALL HER GANDA PJ Raval’s documentary follows the case of Jennifer Laude, a Filipina transgender woman who was killed in 2014 and whose death became an activist cause. The next year, a Philippine court convicted a United States Marine of homicide.COLETTE Wash Westmoreland, in his first feature since the 2015 death of his husband and filmmaking partner, Richard Glatzer, directs a biographical portrait of the French writer Colette (Keira Knightley) during the period when her early novels were published under the name of her husband (Dominic West).DRAGONFLY EYES After culling footage from the internet, the artist Xu Bing edited material shot on surveillance cameras in China into a fictional narrative.FAHRENHEIT 11/9 With “Fahrenheit 9/11,” Michael Moore won the Palme d’Or at Cannes but failed to unseat President George W. Bush in the 2004 election. With “Fahrenheit 11/9” — a reference to the day after the 2016 vote — he gets in his say on President Trump and much else (the Flint water crisis, the state of the Democratic Party) before the 2018 midterms.A HAPPENING OF MONUMENTAL PROPORTIONS Common, Allison Janney and Jennifer Garner star in the actress Judy Greer’s feature directing debut, a comedy built around a cataclysmically bad day at school.THE HOUSE WITH A CLOCK IN ITS WALLS Experience the enchanting side of Eli Roth (“Hostel”), working for the first time with Steven Spielberg’s Amblin Entertainment. The movie is adapted from John Bellairs’s 1973 book of the same title, which had illustrations by Edward Gorey. Owen Vaccaro plays a boy who moves into an old dark house. Jack Black and Cate Blanchett provide a semblance of adult supervision.LIFE ITSELF When two incredibly good-looking people (Oscar Isaac and Olivia Wilde) get together, their relationship is just the start of a multigenerational, continent-bridging story that audiences have to piece together in a manner similar to “This Is Us.” Dan Fogelman, that show’s creator, wrote and directed. Annette Bening, Mandy Patinkin and Antonio Banderas are involved.LITTLE ITALY Two pizzerias, both alike in dignity, in fair Toronto, where they filmed our scene. From the pies of these two chefs, a pair of star-cross’d lovers, their children (Emma Roberts and Hayden Christensen), take their bites.LOVE, GILDA Friends and admirers of Gilda Radner celebrate her genius on “Saturday Night Live” and elsewhere, with the help of her writings, voice recordings and plenty of clips.QUINCY Rashida Jones and Alan Hicks direct this profile of Quincy Jones, the celebrated jazz musician and music producer (also Rashida’s father). On the basis of the February interview he gave Vulture — he claimed that the mobster Sam Giancana killed John F. Kennedy and that Marlon Brando would have sex with a mailbox — he should make for lively company.THE SISTERS BROTHERS Adapted from Patrick deWitt’s novel (and strikingly shot by Benoît Debie), Jacques Audiard’s offbeat western stars Joaquin Phoenix and John C. Reilly as gunslinging brothers tracking a chemist (Riz Ahmed) who has devised a secret formula that may make him rich as a prospector. Jake Gyllenhaal, roughly the equivalent of Saul Rubinek in “Unforgiven,” moves between their worlds.THE SONG OF SWAY LAKE A music collector (Rory Culkin) ropes a friend into a scheme to find and steal a storied record recorded at his grandparents’ wedding. Family secrets are spilled.TEA WITH THE DAMES Three of the stars of “Tea With Mussolini” — Maggie Smith, Judi Dench and Joan Plowright — and Eileen Atkins sit down to drink tea and reminisce with one another. Roger Michell directed this documentary.ALL ABOUT NINA In a performance that volleys between raw anger and scalpel-sharp humor, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, carrying every scene, plays a comic whose routines are at once a mask and an outlet for her demons. Eva Vives (who shared a story credit on “Raising Victor Vargas”) wrote and directed the film, a highlight of this year’s Tribeca Film Festival.BAD REPUTATION The reputation belongs to the pioneering rock frontwoman Joan Jett, of course, and this documentary is here to burnish it.BLACK 47 During the Great Famine of the mid-19th century, an Irishman (James Frecheville) who fought with the British switches sides and vows vengeance. Hugo Weaving co-stars.FREE SOLO Elizabeth Chai Vasarhelyi and Jimmy Chin, the married filmmaking team behind the acclaimed mountain-climbing documentary “Meru,” follow the climber Alex Honnold on his quest to surmount El Capitan in Yosemite National Park. Next to the Himalayan peak in “Meru,” that doesn’t sound too hard. But he has no rope.HOLD THE DARK Jeffrey Wright plays an expert who travels to northern Alaska to help a bereaved mother (Riley Keough) track her son’s killers — a pack of wolves. Jeremy Saulnier, whose credits include “Blue Ruin,” directed, working from a screenplay by a star of that film, Macon Blair.MATANGI/MAYA/M.I.A. The “Paper Planes” rapper reflects on her childhood as the daughter of a Tamil activist in Sri Lanka, her adolescence as a refugee in Britain, and how those experiences and others shaped her music.MONSTERS AND MEN Reinaldo Marcus Green’s Brooklyn-centered examination of police brutality moves through three interlinked protagonists: a man (Anthony Ramos) who films the slaying of an unarmed civilian on his phone; an African-American police officer (John David Washington, who played another conflicted officer in “BlacKkKlansman”) who faces profiling himself as well as pressure from within the force; and a high schooler (Kelvin Harrison Jr.) drawn to activism.NIGHT SCHOOL Kevin Hart works to earn his G.E.D., which is no easy feat with Tiffany Haddish as a teacher. The film reunites Ms. Haddish with Malcolm D. Lee, the director of her breakout performance in “Girls Trip.”THE OLD MAN & THE GUN A retiring Robert Redford makes the most of what he says will be his final role as a well-mannered bank robber who enjoys the thrill of stealing more than the spoils. Casey Affleck plays a lawman on his trail; Sissy Spacek offers him a chance at late-life romance. David Lowery (“A Ghost Story”) directed.SMALLFOOT How’s this for a reversal? This animated musical is set among a world of Bigfoots who believe that humans are mythical creatures — that is, until one of the Yetis (Channing Tatum) meets a Smallfoot (James Corden). Gina Rodriguez, Common and LeBron James add their voices to the mix.306 HOLLYWOOD Mounting a kind of archaeological dig of their dead grandmother’s home, the sibling directors Elan and Jonathan Bogarín use her belongings as inspiration for a disquisition on memory and preserving the past.MOYNIHAN The legacy of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the four-term senator from New York, is probed in this documentary, which features commentary from across the political spectrum by the likes of Ta-Nehisi Coates and Henry Kissinger.ABOVE AND BEYOND: NASA’S JOURNEY TO TOMORROW The documentarian Rory Kennedy (“Last Days in Vietnam”) directed this historical look at NASA. It’s being released for the space agency’s 60th anniversary.BAYOU CAVIAR Cuba Gooding Jr. directs himself in the role of an ex-boxer roped into a scheme by a Russian gangster (Richard Dreyfuss).THE GREAT BUSTER: A CELEBRATION Peter Bogdanovich directs this tribute to Buster Keaton, the “great stone face” of silent-screen comedy, with testimonials from, among others, Mel Brooks; Keaton’s spiritual heir, Johnny Knoxville; and Werner Herzog, who can explain how the falling rocks in “Seven Chances” represent the “overwhelming indifference of nature.”PRIVATE LIFE Tamara Jenkins (“The Savages”) wrote and directed this film about a couple (Kathryn Hahn and Paul Giamatti) dealing with infertility, which puts a strain on their marriage. Kayli Carter, a relative unknown, earned acclaim at Sundance for her performance as their stepniece.A STAR IS BORN It’s an oldie but a goodie: Bradley Cooper directs what is at least the fifth screen version of this story, after “What Price Hollywood?” from 1932 and three movies with the title “A Star Is Born,” from 1937, 1954 and 1976. Lady Gaga steps into the shoes of Constance Bennett, Janet Gaynor, Judy Garland and Barbra Streisand. Mr. Cooper has the Lowell Sherman/Fredric March/James Mason/Kris Kristofferson role.STUDIO 54 The documentarian Matt Tyrnauer, not done with spicy tales of yesteryear after “Scotty and the Secret History of Hollywood,” remembers the disco-era nightclub in a documentary that struck some festival reviewers as definitive. TROUBLE The playwright Theresa Rebeck writes and directs this story of feuding siblings (Anjelica Huston and Bill Pullman).VENOM A question hovers over “Venom,” Marvel’s latest. And that question is: Will fusion with an alien symbiote make Tom Hardy intelligible? He plays a journalist who becomes a supervillain (albeit one with less villainous tendencies than most). Michelle Williams and Riz Ahmed also star; Ruben Fleischer (“Zombieland”) directed.THE HAPPY PRINCE Rupert Everett, realizing a long-gestating project, writes, directs and stars in this portrait of Oscar Wilde. It finds the “Importance of Being Earnest” scribe, about to die, looking back on the later years of his life. Colin Morgan, Colin Firth and Emily Watson co-star.22 JULY Paul Greengrass, who previously turned the events of Sept. 11 into a tense procedural in “United 93,” now turns his gaze to the 2011 massacre on the island of Utoya, Norway. Anders Danielsen Lie (“Oslo, August 31st”) stars. It’s the second movie on this topic this year.BAD TIMES AT THE EL ROYALE The guests at a tacky hotel that straddles the California-Nevada state line run into some trouble. Given that the director is Drew Goddard (“The Cabin in the Woods”), expect surprises. The cast includes Jeff Bridges, Dakota Johnson, Jon Hamm and the stage star Cynthia Erivo.BARBARA Jeanne Balibar plays the French singer-songwriter Barbara in a self-reflexive biopic that challenges the conventions of the form. The actor Mathieu Amalric directed.BEAUTIFUL BOY Timothée Chalamet (“Call Me by Your Name”) has Oscar prognosticators excited about his performance as Nic Sheff, whose father, David Sheff (Steve Carell), wrote a best-selling book about witnessing Nic’s experiences with drug addiction. (The movie draws on multiple tomes by the father and son.) Amy Ryan plays David’s ex-wife. Felix Van Groeningen directed.CLASSICAL PERIOD The experimental filmmaker Ted Fendt directs this portrait of ultra-dedicated translators of Dante.FIRST MAN We’ve already gotten modern classics about the Mercury astronauts (“The Right Stuff”) and the troubled Apollo 13 mission (“Apollo 13”). It seems like it would just be one small step to make a movie about Neil Armstrong, but somehow Hollywood has overlooked him until now. Damien Chazelle, who won a directing Oscar for “La La Land” (2016), reunites with Ryan Gosling (playing Armstrong) to rectify that. They’re working from the historian James R. Hansen’s authorized biography, which drew on extensive interviews with Armstrong. Also starring Claire Foy as Janet Armstrong and Corey Stoll as Buzz Aldrin.GOOSEBUMPS 2: HAUNTED HALLOWEEN R.L. Stine’s apparently inexhaustible series of children’s horror books previously served as the basis of a movie in 2015. Now here’s the sequel, with a cast that includes Wendi McLendon-Covey (“The Goldbergs”) and Ken Jeong (“Crazy Rich Asians”).THE KINDERGARTEN TEACHER Maggie Gyllenhaal earned raves at Sundance for her performance in Sara Colangelo’s remake of Nadav Lapid’s excellent Israeli film, about a kindergarten teacher who becomes obsessed with tapping the genius of one of her students (Parker Sevak), an apparent poetry prodigy.THE OATH When the executive branch mandates that Americans sign a loyalty oath by the day after Thanksgiving, it makes for an awkward holiday for a couple who aren’t on board (Ike Barinholtz, who wrote and directed, and Tiffany Haddish) but spend turkey day with relatives. Featuring Nora Dunn, Carrie Brownstein and John Cho.OVER THE LIMIT With a mat-side seat, this documentary watches as the Russian gymnast Margarita Mamun prepares for the 2016 Olympics.THE SENTENCE The director Rudy Valdez takes a personal angle on the subject of mandatory-minimum sentencing: His sister was convicted of conspiracy charges related to her former boyfriend and sentenced to 15 years. Mr. Valdez filmed her daughters and the rest of their family during her time away.CHARM CITY The director Marilyn Ness spent three years examining violence in Baltimore from the perspective of community advocates, police and politicians, in a documentary that sounds like a nonfiction version of “The Wire.”CAN YOU EVER FORGIVE ME? Melissa McCarthy stars in a character study of Lee Israel (1939-2014), a biographer of Tallulah Bankhead and Estée Lauder who fell on hard times and in the early 1990s forged and sold letters from literary icons. In the movie, Richard E. Grant plays her down-and-out friend and partner in scamming. Marielle Heller (“The Diary of a Teenage Girl”) directed.GALVESTON Mélanie Laurent directed — and adapted, from a novel by the “True Detective” creator Nic Pizzolatto — this thriller, which finds a hit man (Ben Foster) on the run with the kidnapping victim (Elle Fanning) he rescued.THE GUILTY A Danish police dispatcher fielding emergency calls (Jakob Cedergren) overhears evidence that a woman has been kidnapped and spends a frantic evening trying rescue her. Gustav Möller’s suspense movie, shown at Sundance and New Directors/New Films, confines itself to the dispatcher’s perspective, never leaving the call center.HALLOWEEN For those keeping score, this is the third movie to take the title “Halloween,” following Rob Zombie’s 2007 version, which got a sequel in 2009. The new one is less a remake than a reboot-continuation, piggybacking off the events of John Carpenter’s 1978 movie. Jamie Lee Curtis returns as Laurie Strode, who has been killed off multiple times, including at the beginning of “Halloween: Resurrection” (2002), which itself was the eighth movie in the original series. David Gordon Green directed, continuing to taunt critics who praised him when he was a promising indie upstart (“George Washington”).THE HATE U GIVE In this adaptation of the best-selling YA novel by Angie Thomas (which grew out of a short story inspired by the conversation surrounding the death of Oscar Grant III), Amandla Stenberg plays a code-switching teenager with one face for her neighborhood and one for her prep school — until her friend is shot by a police officer. Russell Hornsby, Regina Hall and Common also star. George Tillman Jr. directed.MID90S Jonah Hill makes his first feature as a director, and it’s a period coming-of-age story about a 13-year-old in Los Angeles (Sunny Suljic) who falls in with a crowd of skateboarders.NIGERIAN PRINCE Sent against his will to live with his aunt in Nigeria, an American teenager (Antonio J. Bell) starts working with his con-artist cousin (Chinaza Uche). The film was a highlight of this year’s Tribeca Film Festival and a promising feature debut from Faraday Okoro.ON HER SHOULDERS Alexandria Bombach directs this portrait of Nadia Murad, a Yazidi woman who, after surviving abduction by fighters for the Islamic State, became a human-rights activist.THE PRICE OF EVERYTHING Having already investigated his largely absent father, the architect Louis Kahn, in “My Architect,” Nathaniel Kahn looks at how contemporary art is priced and sold, from the perspectives of artists, auctioneers, collectors and others.SERENITY The captain of a fishing boat (Matthew McConaughey) is approached by his ex-wife (Anne Hathaway, in femme fatale blond hair), who wants him to feed her current husband (Jason Clarke) to the sharks. Djimon Hounsou and Diane Lane also star. Steven Knight (“Locke”) wrote and directed.TRANSFORMER — STRENGTH BEYOND MUSCLE This documentary follows the story of a male body builder and cancer survivor in the process of transitioning to female.TVTV: VIDEO REVOLUTIONARIES A documentary tells the story of a collective of video journalists who were early adopters of Sony’s Portapak, a portable camera that could be used to catch famous subjects on the fly — long before they learned to expect that could happen.THE WALDHEIM WALTZ Ruth Beckermann looks back at the exposure of the former United Nations Secretary General Kurt Waldheim’s Nazi ties at the time he sought the Austrian presidency in 1986 — revelations that, in Austria, were met with an anti-Semitic backlash.WHAT THEY HAD Blythe Danner plays a matriarch with Alzheimer’s; Robert Forster is the patriarch; and Hilary Swank and Michael Shannon play their children. Elizabeth Chomko wrote and directed.WILDLIFE When his father (Jake Gyllenhaal) goes off to fight a forest fire, Joe (Ed Oxenbould) gains a dawning awareness of the loneliness and desperation of his mother (Carey Mulligan). Zoe Kazan and Paul Dano wrote the confidently understated script, adapting a novel by Richard Ford, and Mr. Dano makes his feature directing debut.LIFE AND NOTHING MORE The director Antonio Méndez Esparza brings a documentarylike immediacy to this indie, a festival favorite about a mother (Regina Williams) on her own with her son (Andrew Bleechington).AIR STRIKE Bruce Willis and Adrien Brody headline this action film set during World War II and focusing on the Chinese military response to Japanese bomber strikes. Xiao Feng directed.A BREAD FACTORY Patrick Wang, whose self-distributed debut feature, “In the Family,” appeared as an out-of-nowhere wonder in 2011, directs what sounds like a crazily ambitious project — actually two films, each two hours, that’s said to be part drama, part comedy and part musical. The bread factory of the title is an arts space whose financing comes under threat. With an expansive scope, the film depicts the reaction of the town. (An earlier feature from Mr. Wang, “The Grief of Others,” opens the next week.)BURNING At Cannes, one of the metrics of buzz is Screen International magazine’s “jury grid,” with critics contributing daily ratings. The South Korean director Lee Chang-dong’s film broke the record for the highest score in the grid’s yearslong history. His ecstatically reviewed adaptation of a Haruki Murakami story concerns an aimless young man (Yoo Ah-in); the mysterious young woman (Jun Jong-seo) with whom becomes involved; and the wealth-flaunting charmer (Steven Yeun) who comes between them.HUNTER KILLER It was probably only a matter of time until Gerard Butler played a submarine captain. In this case, it’s an American sub whose crew endeavors to rescue the Russian president from a kidnapping plot. Gary Oldman, Common and Linda Cardellini are involved.JOHNNY ENGLISH STRIKES AGAIN Summoning his inner Inspector Clouseau, Rowan Atkinson returns as the bumbling secret agent Johnny English (a.k.a. the character of his who’s not Mr. Bean). Olga Kurylenko and Emma Thompson are embroiled in the antics.MONROVIA, INDIANA Some of Frederick Wiseman’s greatest films (“Aspen,” “In Jackson Heights”) are portraits of towns or neighborhoods, and this look at a farming community about a half-hour from Indianapolis is sure to brim with complexity and challenge prejudices.1985 Over the holidays, a young man sweats over coming out to his family, which is conservative and, he presumes, won’t react well to the news. Yen Tan directed. Cory Michael Smith, Virginia Madsen and Michael Chiklis star.SHIRKERS Sandi Tan revisits the footage from an unfinished movie she filmed with friends in Singapore in the early 1990s. It was never completed, for reasons this essay film — an absorbing and original mix of reminiscence, reflection and investigative mystery — gradually parcels out.SOLIS An astronaut (Steven Ogg) is alone aboard an escape pod that’s drifting toward the sun, with only a radio contact (Alice Lowe) to guide him.SUSPIRIA The ingénue is Dakota Johnson rather than Jessica Harper; the score is by the Radiohead frontman Thom Yorke instead of Goblin; and the visual stylishness comes courtesy of the director Luca Guadagnino (“Call Me by Your Name”). We’ll see if they can cast a spell for 152 minutes — the running time of this remake of Dario Argento’s 1977 Italian giallo classic.THREE PEAKS Mom’s boyfriend (Alexander Fehling) really wants to get along with her son (Arian Montgomery). The child, however, has other plans, and hopes that his mother (Bérénice Bejo) will reunite with his dad. Then, on a mountain vacation, the boy goes missing.VIPER CLUB Susan Sarandon plays a mother weighing her options when her son, a journalist, is held hostage by terrorists. Maryam Keshavarz (“Circumstance”) directed.BOHEMIAN RHAPSODY Rami Malek is Freddie Mercury, the lead singer of Queen, in a biopic that tells the band’s story. The director Bryan Singer’s name is still on it, but his unexplained absence during filming got him fired from the project. Will moviegoers do the Fandango and buy tickets anyway?BOY ERASED Lucas Hedges plays the gay son of a pastor. Facing ostracism from his parents (Nicole Kidman and Russell Crowe), the teenager attends a “conversion therapy” program. Joel Edgerton directed, from the memoir by Garrard Conley.MARIA BY CALLAS Already a popular biopic subject onstage (Terrence McNally’s “Master Class”), the opera singer Maria Callas (1923-77) here tells her own story in a way, through interview clips, writings and other artifacts from her life.NOBODY’S FOOL Tyler Perry’s second feature this year deals with two sisters — one just out of jail (Tiffany Haddish), the other a rising star in a company (Tika Sumpter). Whoopi Goldberg and Omari Hardwick also star.THE NUTCRACKER AND THE FOUR REALMS Lasse Hallström and Joe Johnston direct this live-action take on Tchaikovsky’s ballet; the results appear to add a helping of “Alice in Wonderland,” with Mackenzie Foy as a girl who stumbles into a magical world. Jayden Fowora-Knight, Keira Knightley, Helen Mirren and Morgan Freeman also star.THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WIND In the most exciting posthumous release since Stanley Kubrick’s “Eyes Wide Shut,” this unfinished project from Orson Welles — who cut a roughly 45-minute work print — will finally be seen in a completed form after decades of rights disputes and efforts to bring all the footage together under one roof. Welles’s collaborators Frank Marshall and Peter Bogdanovich were involved in the final edit, which paid attention to the notes the great director left behind. THEY’LL LOVE ME WHEN I’M DEAD Morgan Neville (“Won’t You Be My Neighbor”) directs this look at the final years of Orson Welles’s career, including his efforts to complete “The Other Side of the Wind,” which will be released the same day as Mr. Neville’s documentary.A PRIVATE WAR The documentarian Matthew Heineman (“Cartel Land”) turns to dramatic features with this biopic of the war correspondent Marie Colvin (Rosamund Pike), who was killed in Syria in 2012. Jamie Dornan co-stars.SEARCHING FOR INGMAR BERGMAN Margarethe von Trotta directed this extensive look at the career of Ingmar Bergman, whose centennial has been widely celebrated this year.THE FRONT RUNNER Just in time for the day after the midterm elections, Hugh Jackman plays the Democratic presidential candidate Gary Hart in Jason Reitman’s film about the end of his 1988 candidacy in the wake of reports suggesting that he had an affair with Donna Rice (Sara Paxton). Vera Farmiga and J.K. Simmons co-star. The journalist and former New York Times Magazine writer Matt Bai is one of the screenwriters, adapting his own book.CHEF FLYNN Cameron Yates directs this portrait of Flynn McGarry, who became a celebrity chef as a teenager.DR. SEUSS’ THE GRINCHDr. Seuss’ curmudgeonWho tries Christmas to snatchReturns in cartoon formVoiced by Benedict Cumberbatch.EL ANGEL In a splashy style perhaps influenced by one of its producers, Pedro Almodóvar, the director Luis Ortega recounts the crime spree of the serial killer Carlos Robledo Puch (Lorenzo Ferro), who has been called Argentina’s longest-serving prisoner.THE GIRL IN THE SPIDER’S WEB A long way from Buckingham Palace, Claire Foy (“The Crown”) takes over for Rooney Mara and Noomi Rapace as the leather-clad, tatted avenger Lisbeth Salander, in the first film adapted from a book by David Lagercrantz, who continued the series begun by Stieg Larsson. Sverrir Gudnason, Lakeith Stanfield, Vicky Krieps (“Phantom Thread”) and Claes Bang (“The Square”) also star. Fede Alvarez (“Don’t Breathe”) directed.HERE AND NOW In a film with structural similarities to Agnès Varda’s “Cléo From 5 to 7,” Sarah Jessica Parker plays a singer who is trailed over the 24 hours after she receives a dire diagnosis. Common is in this as well.THE LONG DUMB ROAD Tony Revolori (the trainee bellhop in “The Grand Budapest Hotel”) stars as a 19-year-old who’s bound for California on a road trip and gains a friend and traveling companion (Jason Mantzoukas) when his car breaks down. Hannah Fidell directed.THE NEW ROMANTIC Jessica Barden plays a college senior who begins dating a sugar daddy as research for the school paper.OUTLAW KING A long way from the Texas of “Hell or High Water,” the director David Mackenzie returns to Scotland for an epic about Robert the Bruce, an outlaw who became the king of Scotland (and was previously seen in “Braveheart”). Chris Pine stars.OVERLORD Jovan Adepo plays an American soldier who, as D-Day nears, is dropped into occupied France. He encounters creatures engineered in a Nazi lab. J.J. Abrams is one of the producers.PETERLOO Returning to the 19th century (after “Mr. Turner”), Mike Leigh directs a dramatization of the Peterloo massacre in 1819, when workers demanding more rights and voting reforms met with violence from British government forces. Rory Kinnear and Maxine Peake star.POSTCARDS FROM LONDON After more than 20 years away, the New Queer Cinema director Steve McLean (“Postcards From America”) returns to moviemaking with this film starring Harris Dickinson (“Beach Rats”) as a young man who falls in with a group of London escorts.SHOAH: FOUR SISTERS Claude Lanzmann, who died in July, carved four short movies out of interviews he shot for the making of his monumental “Shoah” (1985). Each focuses on testimony from a different female Holocaust survivor. In the longest, the harrowing “The Hippocratic Oath,” Ruth Elias, a Czechoslovakian Jew, remembers being pregnant at Auschwitz and having Josef Mengele as her physician.ANCHOR AND HOPE The director Carlos Marques-Marcet reunites with Natalia Tena, who starred in his festival favorite “10.000 km” and here plays a London woman who is goaded by her partner (Oona Chaplin) into starting what morphs into a kind of three-headed family with a friend.AT ETERNITY’S GATE Vincent Van Gogh has previously been portrayed in movies by Kirk Douglas (“Lust for Life”) and Martin Scorsese (“Akira Kurosawa’s Dreams”), among others. Now the fearless Willem Dafoe gets a chance to go earless as the painter in his last days, in a biopic directed by Julian Schnabel, who promises to bring an artist’s eye to Van Gogh’s creative process. Oscar Isaac plays Paul Gauguin.THE BALLAD OF BUSTER SCRUGGS Reports say that the Coen brothers’ anthology western started as a Netflix series and became a multipart movie. Hey, if the Coens are going west again (“No Country for Old Men,” “True Grit”), they can do what they want. The cast includes Tim Blake Nelson, Liam Neeson, Zoe Kazan and Tom Waits.THE CLOVEHITCH KILLER In a Hitchcockian premise (specifically, what sounds like a spin on his “Suspicion”), a teenager (Charlie Plummer) starts to suspect his father, a scout leader, could be a serial killer.FANTASTIC BEASTS: THE CRIMES OF GRINDELWALD In the continuing expansion of J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter-verse, the dastardly Grindelwald (Johnny Depp) has escaped capture, and Newt Scamander (Eddie Redmayne) signs on to help catch him at the behest of a young Dumbledore (Jude Law, joining the series).55 STEPS Bille August directed this story about a hospitalized psychiatric patient (Helena Bonham Carter) who agrees to let a patients’ rights lawyer (Hilary Swank) represent her.GIRL The Belgian director Lukas Dhont won wide acclaim and the Camera d’Or prize (for best first film) at Cannes for this story of a teenager (Victor Polster) who was born male but identifies as a girl and strives to make it as a dancer in the physically demanding discipline of ballet.INSTANT FAMILY Mark Wahlberg and Rose Byrne play a couple who adopt three foster siblings simultaneously, in a dramedy that draws on the experiences of Sean Anders, the director. Isabela Moner, Octavia Spencer, Tig Notaro and Margo Martindale also star.THE LAST RACE Warmly received at Sundance, Michael Dweck’s documentary looks at the operations and culture of Riverhead Raceway, the last stock-car racing site on Long Island, as the couple who own it contemplate its future.OF FATHERS AND SONS A prizewinner at Sundance, the director Talal Derki’s documentary follows two boys and their family, a radical jihadist household.WIDOWS It’s always interesting when experimentalists like Steve McQueen go mainstream — even before directing “Hunger,” “Shame” and the best picture-winning “12 Years a Slave,” he was a celebrated, uncompromising visual artist. Here he collaborates with the “Sharp Objects” author Gillian Flynn on a Chicago-set genre film. Viola Davis is the ringleader of women who follow through on a crime planned by men who were killed. Michelle Rodriguez, Elizabeth Debicki and Cynthia Erivo also star.THE WORLD BEFORE YOUR FEET Over six years, Matt Green is said to have walked every block of New York City. His story is told in this documentary.CREED II “Rocky” got its sequels, and so now does “Creed.” Michael B. Jordan returns as Adonis Creed (son of Carl Weathers’s Apollo) and Sylvester Stallone, now 72, returns as the Italian Stallion, Adonis’s mentor. Tessa Thompson is also back. Steven Caple Jr. takes over directing duties from Ryan Coogler (“Black Panther”).GREEN BOOK It may seem odd that Peter Farrelly (who with Bobby Farrelly, his brother, is responsible for “There’s Something About Mary” and other sweet-gross comedies) would be making his solo directing debut with a civil rights-era drama, about the friendship between the African-American jazz pianist Don Shirley (Mahershala Ali) and his white driver (Viggo Mortensen) during a tour of the Deep South. Then again, the Farrellys’ movies — from “Dumb and Dumber” to “Stuck on You” — have often focused on friends or siblings who lean on each other.RALPH BREAKS THE INTERNET Only a bad take or a good meme can break the internet. But Ralph (John C. Reilly) and Vanellope (Sarah Silverman) try in a sequel that finds them mixing it up with new characters from across the web. Gal Gadot, Jack McBrayer and Taraji P. Henson also lend their voices.ROBIN HOOD You think it’s too soon to reboot Robin Hood, seen on screen, in the form of Russell Crowe, as recently as 2010? Nonsense: Hollywood should keep robbing from its backers and giving to poor moviegoers until it gets this legend right. Taron Egerton stars as Robin of Loxley, which, to paraphrase Mel Brooks, presumably means that Eve Hewson is playing Marian of Bagel. Jamie Foxx plays Little John.THE SANDINISTAS Jenny Murray’s documentary specifically focuses on the women who fought with the Sandinistas in Nicaragua and their advocacy for reform.SECOND ACT Jennifer Lopez plays a woman who is hired for a high-powered Madison Avenue job after someone gives her online identity a makeover — with significant embellishments. Leah Remini, Vanessa Hudgens and Milo Ventimiglia co-star in this comedy.BECOMING ASTRID Astrid is Astrid Lindgren, the creator of Pippi Longstocking, in this biopic starring Alba August as the author in her late teens and early 20s, though played later in life by Maria Fahl Vikander, mother of the Oscar-winning Alicia Vikander.THE FAVOURITE Yorgos Lanthimos (“The Lobster”) brings his absurdist wit to an 18th-century period piece — a dark comedy about the two women (Rachel Weisz and Emma Stone) who compete for the favor of Queen Anne (Olivia Colman). It opens the New York Film Festival on Sept. 28.SHOPLIFTERS Hirokazu Kore-eda’s poignant drama, which won the Palme d’Or at Cannes in May, is best seen with as little foreknowledge as possible. It concerns a family of petty thieves who take in a young girl.ANNA AND THE APOCALYPSE If teenage romance and an evil headmaster weren’t trouble enough, high schoolers suddenly find themselves besieged by zombies over the Christmas season. Oh, and it’s a musical — by turns fun and sad. The project was the brainchild of the Scottish filmmaker Ryan McHenry, who died at 27 of bone cancer. His friends and collaborators worked to bring it to fruition.HAPPY AS LAZZARO Alice Rohrwacher won a screenplay prize at Cannes for a movie that freely mixes modes. It’s said to be inspired by a real-life Italian incident in which an isolated estate continued the outlawed practice of sharecropping. Through her protagonist (Adriano Tardiolo), Ms. Rohrwacher blends in elements of the story of Lazarus.IF BEALE STREET COULD TALK Two years after his best-picture-winning “Moonlight,” Barry Jenkins is back with this adaptation of James Baldwin’s 1974 novel, focused on a young couple in Harlem, Tish (KiKi Layne) and Fonny (Stephan James), and what happens when Fonny is wrongfully accused of a rape. In Mr. Baldwin’s telling — and Mr. Jenkins’s — it’s a character-driven piece, about race, love and coping.MIRAI A boy jealous of his infant sister meets her as a time-traveling teenager in this anime feature from Mamoru Hosoda.TYREL At Sundance, Sebastián Silva’s movie drew comparisons to “Get Out.” Jason Mitchell plays a man who travels to upstate New York for a birthday party — and discovers that he’ll be the only African-American there for the whole weekend.ANGEL FACE Marion Cotillard plays a wayward mother who impulsively leaves her 8-year-old daughter. Vanessa Filho directed.BEN IS BACK Peter Hedges, who already tackled Thanksgiving in “Pieces of April,” directs his son Lucas Hedges in the role of a 19-year-old drug addict who comes home for Christmas. His mother (Julia Roberts) fears he won’t restrain himself for long.THE INVISIBLES Claus Räfle’s film focuses on four Jews who survived the Holocaust hiding in Berlin, the capital of the Nazi regime.MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS Saoirse Ronan is Mary Stuart, who as queen of Scotland laid claim to the English throne, occupied by Elizabeth I (Margot Robbie). No spoilers on which one was ultimately beheaded. The screenplay is by Beau Willimon, who knows a thing or two about these sorts of machinations from “House of Cards.” Josie Rourke directed.UNDER THE SILVER LAKE Andrew Garfield stumbles into an incredibly labyrinthine shaggy-dog mystery in Los Angeles when he goes searching for a mysterious woman (Riley Keough) with whom he spent an evening. David Robert Mitchell (“It Follows”) wrote and directed, self-consciously flaunting his influences (“The Long Goodbye,” “The Big Lebowski,” “Inherent Vice,” etc.).CAPERNAUM In Nadine Labaki’s drama, which won a prize at Cannes, a 12-year-old is suing his parents in court in Lebanon. Through flashbacks to his childhood in the direst poverty, we find out why.DEAD SOULS Wang Bing (“’Til Madness Do Us Part”) is known for making arduous but rewarding documentaries. “Dead Souls” — which runs more than eight hours — has already garnered comparisons to “Shoah.” The film presents the testimonies of a group of survivors of Chinese re-education camps, sent there in a 1957 purge by the Communist Party.MORTAL ENGINES Peter Jackson, Fran Walsh and Philippa Boyens — the screenwriting team of “Lord of the Rings” — go seriously “Mad Max” with this adaptation of the first book in a series by Philip Reeve, which takes places in a dystopian world where major cities have wheels and pick on smaller cities. Basically, Earth has become “Monster Trucks.” Christian Rivers, a longtime storyboard and effects artist for Mr. Jackson, directed.ROMA Alfonso Cuarón’s first Mexican feature since “Y Tu Mamá También” takes its title from a neighborhood in Mexico City. This semi-autobiographical tale revolves around the housekeeper (Yalitza Aparicio) for a middle-class family. Early reviews on the festival circuit have been ecstatic.SPIDER-MAN: INTO THE SPIDER-VERSE This umpteenth Spider-Man reboot actually tries something different: It’s animated, from a script by Phil Lord (who directed “The Lego Movie” with Christopher Miller), and it has a new angle: A teenager, Miles Morales (voiced by Shameik Moore), becomes a trainee Spider-Man under the tutelage of Peter Parker (Jake Johnson) This installment adds some diversity to the series — Morales is black and Latino — and there are multiple Spider-Persons, including Gwen Stacy (Hailee Steinfeld).UNTITLED ADAM MCKAY DICK CHENEY PROJECT Christian Bale has gotten publicity in the past for messing with his weight for roles, but few probably believed he could play Dick Cheney — until the stills surfaced. There are other unlikely casting choices in the “Big Short” director Adam McKay’s sure-to-be-irreverent take on George W. Bush’s vice president: Amy Adams as Lynne Cheney. Steve Carell as Donald Rumsfeld. Tyler Perry as Colin Powell.SPRINGSTEEN ON BROADWAY On the day of its final Broadway performance, Bruce Springsteen’s hit theater show will be released in a filmed version in cinemas and on Netflix.MARY POPPINS RETURNS First Christopher Robin grew up. Now the children from “Mary Poppins” need revisiting from their old nanny, who has magically transformed into Emily Blunt. Lin Manuel-Miranda, playing a lamplighter, could probably sing a killer “Chim Chim Cher-ee.” Dick Van Dyke appears as well. Rob Marshall, whose track record with screen musicals includes “Chicago” and “Nine,” directed.ALITA: BATTLE ANGEL James Cameron was mentioned in connection with a movie version of “Battle Angel Alita,” a manga series by Yukito Kishiro, since at least sometime shortly after “Titanic.” It’s finally here, with Mr. Cameron as a producer and Robert Rodriguez directing. Rosa Salazar stars as a sympathetic cyborg. With Lana Condor, Christoph Waltz, Jennifer Connelly and Mahershala Ali.AQUAMAN The DC Comics movie universe doubles back from “Justice League” to give Aquaman — half-human, half-scion of Atlantis — a movie of his own. Jason Momoa definitely has a bit of that Poseidon look going. With Amber Heard. James Wan directed.BIRD BOX  Based on the book by Josh Malerman, Susanne Bier’s film stars Sandra Bullock as a mother who must lead her children to safety — without being able to see. Trevante Rhodes, Sarah Paulson and John Malkovich also star.BUMBLEBEE Has the “Transformers” series finally turned its attention to human characters? This spinoff involves a teenager (Hailee Steinfeld) who finds out that her beat-up VW bug transforms into the robot Bumblebee. Travis Knight (“Kubo and the Two Strings”) directed.COLD WAR Shooting, as he did in “Ida,” in black-and-white, the Polish director Pawel Pawlikowski tells the story of the love between a singer (Joanna Kulig) and a pianist (Tomasz Kot), as they are separated and reunited (both by choice and by circumstance) during the early part of the Cold War.HOLMES & WATSON Nope, it’s not another entry in the Robert Downey Jr. series. Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson are played by Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly, and any parody is intentional. The fusty ambience of 221B Baker Street probably isn’t the right backdrop for a reprise of the Catalina wine mixer from “Step Brothers,” but I expect this to be one of the few screen takes on Arthur Conan Doyle to acknowledge Holmes’s habit of mainlining cocaine. Etan Cohen directed.WELCOME TO MARWEN Dramatizing the story told in the documentary “Marwencol” (2010), Robert Zemeckis taps Steve Carell to play the outsider artist Mark Hogancamp, who, having suffered brain damage in an assault, began making a model of a fictional World War II-era town and cast himself as a war hero. The first trailer raised eyebrows for not offering any hint of Mr. Hogancamp’s cross-dressing. Mr. Zemeckis, responding to the controversy in The Telegraph, said, “We can’t give everything away.” Leslie Mann and Janelle Monáe co-star.DESTROYER Nicole Kidman puts in an uncharacteristically dark turn as a Southern California detective who returns to investigating the gang she went undercover to infiltrate years earlier. It’s as much a character study as it is a crime movie. Sebastian Stan and Tatiana Maslany also star. Karyn Kusama directed.ON THE BASIS OF SEX Felicity Jones plays Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg in her years as a lawyer fighting gender discrimination, a battle chronicled earlier this year in the hit documentary “RBG.” Armie Hammer plays her husband, Marty Ginsburg. Mimi Leder directed. The screenplay is by the justice’s nephew Daniel Stiepleman.THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT Seven years after being declared persona non grata at Cannes, Lars von Trier returned to the festival this year to poke the organizers in the eye. Clearly designed to provoke outrage, the film stars Matt Dillon as a serial killer. His murder spree is presented as a sort of allegory for Mr. von Trier’s body of work, movies that detractors say revel in cruelty toward women (“Dancer in the Dark,” “Dogville”). Uma Thurman and Riley Keough play two of the victims.An earlier version of this article used an outdated title for “Ralph Breaks the Internet.” It is no longer subtitled “Wreck-It Ralph 2.”Compiled with the assistance of Sara Aridi. Advertisement