AdvertisementSupported byRewindBy J. HobermanAn openly tendentious tour de force considered by many as Cuban cinema’s peak accomplishment, Humberto Solás’s “Lucía” (1968) is a landmark newly visible in a 4K restoration for a weeklong run at Metrograph in Manhattan.Solás, who died 10 years ago, was in his mid-20s when he made Cuba’s most elaborate and expensive movie yet — and perhaps ever. A 2-hour-40-minute black-and-white pageant, “Lucía” dramatizes the situation of three oppressed women, all named Lucía, at cusp moments of Cuban history — the 1890s war of independence, the early 1930s uprising against the dictatorship of Gerardo Machado and the post-revolutionary ’60s.Each story has its own style, and each “Lucía” represents a different social class. The Lucía of 1895 (played by the stage diva Raquel Revuelta) is a woman from an aristocratic Havana family who, losing her youth, embarks on a passionate affair with a handsome Spaniard. A story of love and betrayal is set against the war between the Spanish and the Cuban guerrillas known as mambises, many former slaves; the sequence is reminiscent of but even wilder in its orchestrated tumult than Luchino Visconti’s operatic costume dramas. Like the lovers in Visconti’s “Senso,” the protagonist cannot will herself outside of history.The second Lucía (Eslinda Nuñez, who played the object of the antihero’s fantasies in “Memories of Underdevelopment”) is the daughter of a bourgeois family. Unlike the first Lucía, she tries to engage rather than escape, giving herself to an idealistic young opponent of the Machado regime. Although not without violence, this section is tender and even dreamy — episodes of street fighting punctuate a “new wave” love story. Hauntingly beautiful, Ms. Nuñez could double for Delphine Seyrig in “Last Year at Marienbad.” But despite her character’s political commitment, she is marginalized as a woman even as her intellectual lover is betrayed. The 1930s revolution is incomplete.The third Lucía is the Castro equivalent of a Soviet positive heroine — not unlike Adela Legrá, the captivating untrained actress who plays her. An illiterate peasant, this Lucía leaves a female work brigade for love of a self-regarding, insanely proprietary truck driver. Having traded labor for servitude, she must learn to assert herself against the traditional macho husband who tells her, “I am the Revolution.” Reminiscent of the Italian film farces of the ’60s, the episode employs a rollicking version of the ballad “Guantanamera” to comment on their conjugal struggle and end the movie on a note of triumphant ambiguity.“Lucía” won first prize at the 1969 Moscow Film Festival, but because of the embargo against Cuba it did not open in the United States until 1974. While politically minded critics parsed the dialectical aspect of Solás’s shifting styles, mainstream reviewers were apt to pick out their favorite segment. Nora Sayre, who wrote on “Lucía” for The New York Times, was partial to the last, expressing a hope that it might be seen by “all the sexes,” and praising it as “the best discussion of equality (and inequality) I’ve seen on screen.”Rewind is an occasional column covering revived, restored and rediscovered movies playing in New York’s repertory theaters.LucíaThrough Oct. 4 at Metrograph, Manhattan; 212-660-0312, metrograph.com.Advertisement