AdvertisementSupported byBy Ceylan YeginsuThe former Trump adviser Roger J. Stone Jr. faced questions on Monday over the publication of a book and new Instagram posts that may have violated a gag order prohibiting him from making public statements about the legal proceedings against him.The office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, notified a federal judge about an Instagram post that Mr. Stone posted on Sunday mimicking a poster of the 1988 film “Who Framed Roger Rabbit?” Under a portrait of himself he asked the question, “Who Framed Roger Stone?”The post came two days after the judge, Amy Berman Jackson of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, ordered Mr. Stone to explain why he did not tell her he was publishing a book that provides a defense for himself barely a week after she issued a gag order prohibiting him from making public statements about the criminal case against him.She was referring to a new edition of Mr. Stone’s book “The Myth of Russian Collusion: The Inside Story of How Donald Trump REALLY Won” that was published on Friday.Mr. Stone filed a response on late Monday afternoon, arguing that the book had not violated the gag order because the parts about the case had been published online in January, before the judge signed the order on Feb. 21.The judge’s latest order came eight days after she reprimanded Mr. Stone for posting a picture on Instagram that appeared to show Judge Jackson next to rifle-scope cross hairs. She threatened to send him to jail without bail if he violated the gag order.She extended the order to “posts on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or any other form of social media.”In a new post published on Mr. Stone’s Instagram account on Sunday, Mr. Mueller was accused of adopting tactics “straight out of gestapo’s playbook,” and Mr. Stone’s followers were asked to donate to his legal defense fund.His Instagram account published another post on Sunday of black T-shirts emblazed with the phrase “Roger Stone did Nothing Wrong,” accompanied by the caption, “The proceeds will go to defend Stone against the deep state hit squad.”“We must fight for Roger Stone … now more than ever,” the caption read. “If they can do this to Roger … they are coming for us next!”The two Instagram posts were deleted late on Sunday, but screenshots of them have been circulated on social media.Mr. Stone’s lawyers did not return phone calls or reply to emails requesting comment on Monday.Mr. Stone, a former campaign adviser and longtime friend of President Trump, faces charges of lying to Congress, witness tampering and obstructing justice related to Mr. Mueller’s investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.In the new version of “The Myth of Russian Collusion: The Inside Story of How Donald Trump REALLY Won” that was published last week, Mr. Stone contends that he is being targeted not because he committed a crime, but rather because “the deep state liberals want to silence me and pressure me to testify against my good friend.”In a new introduction to his book, he explains that the aim of the new publication is to “set the record straight” and explain his involvement in the Trump campaign.“Mueller’s Russian investigation has tried to implicate me by saying I had direct knowledge of plans by WikiLeaks to release information damaging to Hillary Clinton’s campaign,” he wrote. “There is no evidence whatsoever to support this claim, even after at least twelve of my current and former associates have been browbeaten by the F.B.I. and at least six of them were dragged before Mueller’s grand jury.”Advertisement