AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Michael GoncharAre you a Tetris or Mario Bros. fan? Can you get a high score on Centipede or Space Invaders? What classic video games do you still like playing? And why are those old games so appealing?In “How to Find the Video Games of Your Youth,” J. D. Biersdorfer writes:Video games hit their 60th birthday in October, if you start counting (as many do) with Tennis for Two, a rudimentary Pong ancestor cobbled together by the physicist William A. Higinbotham at Long Island’s Brookhaven National Laboratory. Games have evolved a lot since then, of course, becoming far more complicated and visual, as well as multiplayer.Yet sometimes you just want to play an old favorite. Why seek out an ancient game with rudimentary graphics and only basic actions? For some, it’s pure nostalgia, like reading a beloved picture book again. For others, old games are a way to share a link to their childhood with a child of their own.The article continues with practical suggestions for where to find classic games like Pac-Man and Donkey Kong. It concludes with:Fortnite and Minecraft may dominate the game world today, but for sheer persistence and a huge dose of 1980s nostalgia, you can still find the iconic arcade wonder Pac-Man on just about every hardware platform around.The munching yellow head with the distinctive waka-waka-waka sound even got a fully playable Google Doodle in 2010 on its 30th anniversary. Amazon’s Alexa speaker now has a “choose your own adventure” audio version called Pac-Man Stories — proving, perhaps, that the classics find a new audience in every generation.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— How did you get interested in vintage games? Did a parent introduce you? Are they popular with your friends? Or did you seek them out?— Do you appreciate the rudimentary graphics and basic action possibilities? What else about old video games do you find appealing compared to today’s games?— How do you play these throwbacks? On your phone, old gaming console, desktop or even graphing calculator?— What are your favorite classic games?— Or do you prefer more modern games over vintage games? Why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Advertisement