AdvertisementSupported byEditors’ ChoiceWe’re all in this together. That might be the message uniting this week’s recommended books, all but one of which feature group portraits or stories of friendships. (The sole exception, Barry Lopez’s “Horizon,” takes the environmentalist’s long view to arrive at essentially the same conclusion.) There’s Susan Choi’s novel “Trust Exercise,” about classmates at a performing arts high school. Miriam Toews’s novel “Women Talking,” about Mennonite victims of sexual violence. Nell Freudenberger’s novel “Lost and Wanted,” which views a remembered friendship through the lens of science. In “Women’s Work,” Megan K. Stack turns the microscope on herself, and her class privilege, to explore her relationship to the women she hired as domestic help when she lived overseas. There’s also Leo Damrosch’s great group biography of the Club — the 18th-century British intellectuals who met weekly for food, drink and conversation that nurtured their creative genius. (They saved it for more exciting things than their club’s name.) Finally, Clive Thompson examines the culture of Silicon Valley coders and Pitchaya Sudbanthad traces several generations of Thai characters in his debut novel, “Bangkok Wakes to Rain.” Read it, or any of this week’s titles, with a book group.Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksTwitter: @GregoryCowlesTRUST EXERCISE, by Susan Choi. (Henry Holt, $27.) Choi’s fifth novel is set at a performing arts high school in a large Southern city, and concerns two students in love. When the story fast-forwards about 15 years, everything we thought we understood changes. The novel becomes an examination of sexual consent, especially when applied to student-teacher relationships. “This psychologically acute novel enlists your heart as well as your mind,” our critic Dwight Garner writes. “It burns more brightly than anything she’s yet written.”WOMEN TALKING, by Miriam Toews. (Bloomsbury, $24.) “Women Talking” was inspired by horrific real-life crimes that occurred in 2005, when Mennonite women in Bolivia were anesthetized and raped by men in their own community. In this novel, a group of women meet to discuss how they will react to a similar series of attacks. “The ethical questions the women quarrel over feel strikingly contemporary,” our critic Parul Sehgal writes. “What are the differences between punishment and justice? How do we define rehabilitation; how do we enforce accountability?”WOMEN’S WORK: A Reckoning With Work and Home, by Megan K. Stack. (Doubleday, $27.95.) Stack, formerly a war correspondent for The Los Angeles Times, writes in her latest book about the years she spent in India and China, and the woman she hired while there to help raise her family. “Memoirs about motherhood are exceedingly common, but ‘Women’s Work’ dares to explore the labor arrangements that often make such books possible,” our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. “As Stack herself admits — in an author’s note that’s as ruthlessly and relentlessly self-aware as the rest of her book — she had little in common with the women she employed.”LOST AND WANTED, by Nell Freudenberger. (Knopf, $26.95.) After her best friend from college dies unexpectedly, a theoretical physicist (specialty: five-dimensional space-time) is compelled to re-examine their relationship in this absorbing novel. “The effect is beautiful,” Louisa Hall writes on the cover of the Book Review. “Freudenberger navigates complicated concepts from physics with admirable clarity, and those concepts — entanglement, uncertainty, gravitational waves — help us feel in new ways the ongoing influence of dormant friendships, the difficulties involved with believing in attachments that can’t be observed, the enduring pull of discarded hopes.”CODERS: The Making of a New Tribe and the Remaking of the World, by Clive Thompson. (Penguin Press, $28.) Thompson goes straight to the brain center of Silicon Valley: the army of programmers whose hands create our digital world. Through a focus on their behavior and thinking he’s able to offer new insights about the influence and power these geeks have on the rest of us. “With an anthropologist’s eye, he outlines their different personality traits, their history and cultural touchstones,” Nellie Bowles writes in her review. “By breaking down what the actual work of coding looks like — often pretty simple, rote, done in teams rather than by loner geniuses — he removes the mystery and brings it into the legible world for the rest of us to debate. Human beings and their foibles are the reason the internet is how it is — for better and often, as this book shows, for worse.”HORIZON, by Barry Lopez. (Knopf, $30.) The eminent environmentalist reconstructs decades’ worth of his observations of the natural world, from the Arctic to Australia. “The book is autobiographical but not an autobiography,” our reviewer, Hillary Rosner, writes, “except to the extent that Lopez’s life of exploration has come to define him. It is his response to his own question: ‘Having seen so many parts of the world, what had I learned about human menace, human triumph and human failure?’ The answer fills 500 pages that feel at once like a reverie and an urgent appeal. ‘Horizon’ is beautiful and brutal, uplifting and bleak, a story of the universal human condition set in some of the most distinctive places on earth.”THE CLUB: Johnson, Boswell, and the Friends Who Shaped an Age, by Leo Damrosch. (Yale University, $30.) Beginning in 1764, some of Britain’s future leading lights (including Samuel Johnson, Edmund Burke and Edward Gibbon) met every Friday night to talk and drink. Damrosch’s magnificent history revives the Club’s creative ferment. “Damrosch brilliantly brings together the members’ voices,” Lyndall Gordon writes in her review. “They air their opinions with the aplomb of thinkers who relish the English language, roll its tones and innuendos about their tongues and have the alertness to listen as well as speak. … As this stellar book moves from one Club member to another, it comes together as an ambitious venture homing in on the nature of creative stimulus.”BANGKOK WAKES TO RAIN, by Pitchaya Sudbanthad. (Riverhead, $27.) In his debut novel, Pitchaya explores the intersecting lives of several generations — human and animal — connected to a single house in Thailand’s fever dream of a capital city. “At first, each chapter feels more like a deft character sketch than something with the forward momentum of a novel,” Hanah Beech writes, reviewing it. “Eventually, though, the stories begin to intersect and build on one another, like banana leaves woven to make a floating offering for the water spirits. Despite the profusion of characters, Pitchaya’s debut novel is more an evocation of a place than of a people.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement