AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergOur guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.THE ANARCHIC CINEMA OF VERA CHYTILOVA at BAM Rose Cinemas (through April 18). In the United States, the Czech-born filmmaker Chytilova (1929-2014) remains best known for her second feature, “Daisies” (on Friday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday), a touchstone of filmmaking in the run-up to the Prague Spring (it was initially banned in Czechoslovakia) and a milestone of feminist cinema, starring Jitka Cerhova and Ivana Karbanova as mischief makers whose antics upend conventions of film and narrative form. But BAM’s retrospective paints a fuller picture of the auteur; almost all the other titles in the series are rarely shown stateside. The 1980s horror film “Wolf’s Hole” (on Saturday), for instance, about teenagers on a ski trip, is said to offer an opportunity to see Chytilova fuse political allegory with more conventional genre tropes.718-636-4100, bam.org‘EL DESENCANTO’ at Film Forum (April 13, 5:10 p.m.). An account of the Paneros, a Spanish literary family whose patriarch became a leading figure of letters during Franco’s rule, this documentary from the mid-1970s was intended as the Iberian Peninsula’s answer to “Grey Gardens,” according to Film Forum. Unreleased in the United States, it inspired a new book on the Paneros by Aaron Shulman, who will introduce the screening. “In addition to producing thousands of pages of poetry and prose, the Paneros have inspired academic studies, fan fiction, film treatments and Twitter hashtags, but they are virtually unknown in the English-speaking world,” Amanda Vaill wrote in her review of the book for The New York Times.212-727-8110, filmforum.orgINFRADESTRUCTION! (A.K.A. WHEN INFRASTRUCTURE ATTACKS) at Anthology Film Archives (April 13-21). The natural follow-up to last month’s Infrastructure on Film series — which gawked at the ingenuity of highway systems and railways — is this collection of movies about engineering gone awry. The problems might extend to the choice of director in “Maximum Overdrive” (on Saturday, Wednesday and April 19), which has a reputation as a notoriously silly filmmaking debut from Stephen King that pits sentient machinery against the populace. “Final Destination 2” (on Saturday, Tuesday and April 19) opens with its ill-fated cast members cheating death by avoiding a vehicular pileup, while the culprit in “Volcano” (on Tuesday and April 21) is not so much infrastructure as the bubbling lava beneath it. And if you’ve only seen “Titanic,” check out the riveting “A Night to Remember” (on Sunday, Wednesday and April 20), a more matter-of-fact, procedural account of the ship’s sinking.212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]LINCOLN KIRSTEIN AND FILM CULTURE at the Museum of Modern Art (through April 24). While MoMA celebrates the influence of Kirstein, a founder of New York City Ballet, on the worlds of art and dance with an exhibition, this parallel program commemorates his role as a pioneering cinephile. This retrospective recreates some of the original programs from a film society Kirstein helped start in the early 1930s, such as a double bill of the Soviet animation “Mail” and Luis Buñuel’s Surrealist outrage “L’Age d’Or” (on Tuesday). It also showcases film work Kirstein championed, from the acting of James Cagney, who can be seen in “The Public Enemy” (on Friday and April 21) and “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” (on April 22), to rushes that Sergei Eisenstein filmed in Mexico (on Saturday) for a never-completed project on the country’s history.212-708-9400, moma.orgAdvertisement