AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.MAKE MUSIC NEW YORK at various locations (June 21). New York’s immense all-day summer street festival returns for its 12th iteration, with over 1,000 free events — many of them participatory — besieging the city with sound. The highlights are endless but include Bach’s “Well-Tempered Clavier” performed at the corners of the 9/11 Memorial Plaza during the evening rush hour; Mozart’s “Requiem” at the National September 11 Memorial at noon; the premiere of Pete M. Wyer’s “Twilight Chorus (for Humans),” in which a choir singing birdsong will spread around the Brooklyn Botanic Garden; a program of Minimalism at Pier 1 in Riverside Park South; and a kayak flotilla making its way up the Gowanus Canal playing a new piece by Elliott Sharp. makemusicday.org/location/new-york/ORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE’S at Merkin Concert Hall (June 19, 7:30 p.m.). The capstone of this ensemble’s Facets of Brahms Festival looks at Brahms in the shadow of Beethoven, with a chamber arrangement of Beethoven’s Symphony No. 2 preceding a version of Brahms’s Serenade No. 1, in a version reconstructed in its original nonet form. Consider, too, a chamber program at the Brooklyn Museum at 2 p.m. on Sunday, for which the pianist Pedja Muzijevic joins the St. Luke’s Chamber Ensemble for an exploration of the influence on Brahms by the Schumanns — both Robert and Clara.212-594-6100, oslmusic.org‘TIME’S ARROW: WEBERN PART 2’ at St. Paul’s Chapel (June 18, 19 and 21, 1 p.m.; through June 23). Barely a week goes by that Julian Wachner’s music program at Trinity Wall Street is not putting on something rare and important. This time, the second part of a festival devoted to performing the canon of Anton Webern, a composer of vast influence on 20th-century music and yet one whose works are almost never heard. Of these three free concerts, note especially Thursday’s, which sets some of Webern’s chamber and solo music next to more recent work by Marti Epstein, Heinz Holliger and Christopher Rouse. Mr. Wachner oversees the proceedings.212-602-0800, trinitywallstreet.org/music-artsWET INK at St. Peter’s Church (June 15, 8 p.m.). This strong new-music ensemble showcases open-score and partially improvised works at this church in Manhattan’s Chelsea neighborhood. The program includes music by Ingrid Laubrock, Lea Bertucci, Darius Jones and Charmaine Lee, as well as Peter Ablinger’s “Black Series,” for clarinet and rock trio.wetink.orgAdvertisement