AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe Cohn“Counterpart” returns for a second season. And Jennifer Aniston and Danielle Macdonald play mother and daughter in “Dumplin’.”COUNTERPART 9 p.m. on Starz. When this multidimensional thriller debuted about a year ago, the Times critic Mike Hale called it “the most entertaining new series of the winter.” J.K. Simmons stars as two versions of the same character. One is a low-level worker with the United Nations in Berlin. The other, living in a parallel dimension spun off from the real world 30 years earlier, is a coldblooded spy. The first season ended with the two versions of the characters each getting stuck in the other’s dimension. The second season, debuting Sunday night, picks up the story from there, allowing Simmons more time to delve into the nuances of this challenging double role. “I considered all kinds of subtle things in terms of appearance that ultimately seemed unnecessary,” the actor told The Times earlier this year. “Because the more interesting thing was how has a person really changed at his core in the second 30 years of his life due to his environment, his experiences.”DUMPLIN’ (2018) on Netflix. A 2015 young-adult novel by Julie Murphy provides the basis for this film, whose title comes from the nickname that its central character is given by her mother. That mother, played by Jennifer Aniston, is a former beauty queen in a small Texas town. Her daughter, Willowdean (Danielle Macdonald), fed up with her mother’s expectations regarding her weight, decides to enter the local beauty pageant (which happens to be run by her mother). “Macdonald was sensational in the under-loved indie comedy ‘Patti Cake$,’ and she easily holds the screen here, too, even when working on fumes and with dumb shtick,” Manohla Dargis wrote in her review for The Times. She added that the cast at large will “keep you hopeful even when the storytelling grinds to a crawl, which happens frequently.”MOWGLI: LEGEND OF THE JUNGLE (2018) on Netflix. The actor Andy Serkis is known for bringing uncommon life to motion-capture characters like Gollum in Peter Jackson’s “Lord of the Rings” films and Caesar in the recent “Planet of the Apes” movies. He took a turn directing with this blood-soaked adaptation of Rudyard Kipling’s “The Jungle Book” stories. Its title character, Mowgli (Rohan Chand), is raised among wild animals. Through motion-capture, Christian Bale plays a panther; Benedict Cumberbatch is a tiger; and Cate Blanchett plays a python. “The filmmakers are clearly trying to bring an uncommon maturity to the fantasy film,” Glenn Kenny wrote in his review for The Times. “And in many respects they succeed.”THE BOY AND THE BEAST (2015) on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes and YouTube. Like Mowgli, the protagonist of this anime fantasy is also surrounded by creatures. The film follows Ren, a young Japanese orphan who finds a portal to a world filled with humanoid animals. The film’s director, Mamoru Hosoda, more recently directed “Mirai,” also anime, which was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for best animated motion picture on Thursday.Advertisement