by Noel MurrayNov. 30, 2018Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for December, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes its schedule without giving notice.Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for December, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes its schedule without giving notice. [Not the month you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.] [Not the month you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.]‘Neo Yokio: Pink Christmas’Starts streaming: Dec. 7‘Neo Yokio: Pink Christmas’Starts streaming: Dec. 7It’s been over a year since Netflix debuted the first season of the musician Ezra Koenig’s quirky animated science-fiction comedy “Neo Yokio.” There’s no second season scheduled yet, but the denizens of Koenig’s wondrous alt-universe New York are at least returning for a one-off special, “Pink Christmas.” This holiday season, the show’s hero Kaz Kaan (voiced by Jaden Smith) will still be handling his “magistocrat” daily grind — fighting evil and suffering through low-key personal drama — while also trying to overcome his usual moodiness to excel at a Secret Santa competition.It’s been over a year since Netflix debuted the first season of the musician Ezra Koenig’s quirky animated science-fiction comedy “Neo Yokio.” There’s no second season scheduled yet, but the denizens of Koenig’s wondrous alt-universe New York are at least returning for a one-off special, “Pink Christmas.” This holiday season, the show’s hero Kaz Kaan (voiced by Jaden Smith) will still be handling his “magistocrat” daily grind — fighting evil and suffering through low-key personal drama — while also trying to overcome his usual moodiness to excel at a Secret Santa competition.——‘Chilling Adventures of Sabrina: A Midwinter’s Tale’Starts streaming: Dec. 14‘Chilling Adventures of Sabrina: A Midwinter’s Tale’Starts streaming: Dec. 14Throughout the first season of “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina,” the show’s writers delivered some unexpectedly bold commentary on the pros and cons of organized religion. Or, at least bolder than one might expect from a stylish horror-drama about a teenage witch. Netflix has been keeping the details of the holiday special “A Midwinter’s Tale” mostly under wraps, only releasing a few seconds of footage as a teaser. But the episode will definitely involve a solstice celebration and a seance, and — if it follows the lead of what’s come before — will add nuanced observations about the purpose of spirituality and ritual in everyday life.Throughout the first season of “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina,” the show’s writers delivered some unexpectedly bold commentary on the pros and cons of organized religion. Or, at least bolder than one might expect from a stylish horror-drama about a teenage witch. Netflix has been keeping the details of the holiday special “A Midwinter’s Tale” mostly under wraps, only releasing a few seconds of footage as a teaser. But the episode will definitely involve a solstice celebration and a seance, and — if it follows the lead of what’s come before — will add nuanced observations about the purpose of spirituality and ritual in everyday life.——‘The Innocent Man’Starts streaming: Dec. 14‘The Innocent Man’Starts streaming: Dec. 14The best-selling author John Grisham made a rare foray into nonfiction with his 2006 book “The Innocent Man,” which told the story of an Oklahoma ex-ballplayer wrongly convicted of murder. Twelve years later, that book has inspired Netflix’s latest true-crime miniseries, which weaves together interviews with the people involved in this outrageous story — Grisham included — while making the case that society should be leery of the death penalty.The best-selling author John Grisham made a rare foray into nonfiction with his 2006 book “The Innocent Man,” which told the story of an Oklahoma ex-ballplayer wrongly convicted of murder. Twelve years later, that book has inspired Netflix’s latest true-crime miniseries, which weaves together interviews with the people involved in this outrageous story — Grisham included — while making the case that society should be leery of the death penalty.——‘Tidelands’ Season 1Starts streaming: Dec. 14‘Tidelands’ Season 1Starts streaming: Dec. 14Netflix’s first Australian original drama is an unusual hybrid of mystery and fantasy, with “Home and Away” and “Puberty Blues” actress Charlotte Best playing Cal McTeer, an ex-convict who faces a chilly welcome when she returns to her hometown of Orphelin Bay. In the 10-episode first season, Cal takes it upon herself to expose some of the fishing village’s dark secrets, starting with the true nature of the ancient, supernatural humanoids known as “the Tidelanders.” Picture a mix of “Top of the Lake,” “Sons of Anarchy,” and “Grimm.”Netflix’s first Australian original drama is an unusual hybrid of mystery and fantasy, with “Home and Away” and “Puberty Blues” actress Charlotte Best playing Cal McTeer, an ex-convict who faces a chilly welcome when she returns to her hometown of Orphelin Bay. In the 10-episode first season, Cal takes it upon herself to expose some of the fishing village’s dark secrets, starting with the true nature of the ancient, supernatural humanoids known as “the Tidelanders.” Picture a mix of “Top of the Lake,” “Sons of Anarchy,” and “Grimm.”——‘Voltron: Legendary Defender’ Season 8Starts streaming: Dec. 14‘Voltron: Legendary Defender’ Season 8Starts streaming: Dec. 14It doesn’t get the critical buzz of “Bojack Horseman” or “Big Mouth,” but for the past few years one of Netflix’s most popular animated series — and most popular series, period — has been “Voltron: Legendary Defender.” Now entering its eighth and final season, this reboot of the 80’s cartoon favorite (itself an Americanized repurposing of a Japanese production) has been telling the story of a group of space pilots, who collectively control a giant robot in a fight against an evil empire. This last set of episodes finishes a saga as epic in scope as any in TV animation.It doesn’t get the critical buzz of “Bojack Horseman” or “Big Mouth,” but for the past few years one of Netflix’s most popular animated series — and most popular series, period — has been “Voltron: Legendary Defender.” Now entering its eighth and final season, this reboot of the 80’s cartoon favorite (itself an Americanized repurposing of a Japanese production) has been telling the story of a group of space pilots, who collectively control a giant robot in a fight against an evil empire. This last set of episodes finishes a saga as epic in scope as any in TV animation.——‘3Below: Tales of Arcadia’Starts streaming: Dec. 21‘3Below: Tales of Arcadia’Starts streaming: Dec. 21Producer Guillermo del Toro follows up his beloved, recently completed Netflix animated series “Trollhunters” with the second part of his planned “Tales of Arcadia” trilogy, all of which will be set in the same strange suburb, perpetually beset by paranormal threats. In “3Below,” Diego Luna and Tatiana Maslany play marooned aliens who try to pass as typical Earth teenagers while they wait for their own people to come rescue them from Earth. Nick Offerman, Glenn Close, Steven Yeun and Kelsey Grammer are among the voices in the supporting cast.Producer Guillermo del Toro follows up his beloved, recently completed Netflix animated series “Trollhunters” with the second part of his planned “Tales of Arcadia” trilogy, all of which will be set in the same strange suburb, perpetually beset by paranormal threats. In “3Below,” Diego Luna and Tatiana Maslany play marooned aliens who try to pass as typical Earth teenagers while they wait for their own people to come rescue them from Earth. Nick Offerman, Glenn Close, Steven Yeun and Kelsey Grammer are among the voices in the supporting cast.——‘Derry Girls’ Season 1Starts streaming: Dec. 21‘Derry Girls’ Season 1Starts streaming: Dec. 21A nation rocked by sectarian violence is a surprising setting for a sitcom, but the playwright and TV writer Lisa McGee defies expectations with her Channel 4 hit “Derry Girls,” a boisterous and funny look back at life in Northern Ireland in the early 1990s. McGee (who wrote each of the first season’s six episodes) doesn’t ignore the IRA bombings and brawls that rocked Derry at the time, but this series is mostly about four adolescent girls and one transplanted English boy all facing growing pains while engaging in typical classroom hijinks. Fast-paced and filled with sharp detail, “Derry Girls” shows that teens will be teens, even while living under the threat of terrorism.A nation rocked by sectarian violence is a surprising setting for a sitcom, but the playwright and TV writer Lisa McGee defies expectations with her Channel 4 hit “Derry Girls,” a boisterous and funny look back at life in Northern Ireland in the early 1990s. McGee (who wrote each of the first season’s six episodes) doesn’t ignore the IRA bombings and brawls that rocked Derry at the time, but this series is mostly about four adolescent girls and one transplanted English boy all facing growing pains while engaging in typical classroom hijinks. Fast-paced and filled with sharp detail, “Derry Girls” shows that teens will be teens, even while living under the threat of terrorism.Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.——‘Watership Down’Starts streaming: Dec. 23‘Watership Down’Starts streaming: Dec. 23The latest animated adaptation of Richard Adams’ magnificent adventure novel “Watership Down” is the most ambitious and expensive yet: a four-part animated miniseries, co-produced by Netflix and the BBC, with big names like James McAvoy, Ben Kingsley, Gemma Arterton, Rosamund Pike, John Boyega and Peter Capaldi providing the voices. It’s no accident that this new “Watership Down” is debuting right before Christmas. The producers are undoubtedly hoping that families will gather around the TV over the holiday season to experience Adams’ classic tale of rabbits on a courageous quest to find a new home.The latest animated adaptation of Richard Adams’ magnificent adventure novel “Watership Down” is the most ambitious and expensive yet: a four-part animated miniseries, co-produced by Netflix and the BBC, with big names like James McAvoy, Ben Kingsley, Gemma Arterton, Rosamund Pike, John Boyega and Peter Capaldi providing the voices. It’s no accident that this new “Watership Down” is debuting right before Christmas. The producers are undoubtedly hoping that families will gather around the TV over the holiday season to experience Adams’ classic tale of rabbits on a courageous quest to find a new home.Also of Interest: “Bad Blood” (Dec. 7), “Dogs of Berlin” Season 1 (Dec. 7), “The Hook Up Plan” (Dec. 7), “The Ranch” Part 6 (Dec. 7), “Fuller House” Season 4 (Dec. 14), “Inside the Real Narcos” Series 1 (Dec. 14), “Travelers” Season 3 (Dec. 14), “Terrace House: Opening New Doors” Part 5 (Dec. 18), “Perfume” (Dec. 21), “Diablero” (Dec. 21) and “Murder Mountain” (Dec. 28)Also of Interest: “Bad Blood” (Dec. 7), “Dogs of Berlin” Season 1 (Dec. 7), “The Hook Up Plan” (Dec. 7), “The Ranch” Part 6 (Dec. 7), “Fuller House” Season 4 (Dec. 14), “Inside the Real Narcos” Series 1 (Dec. 14), “Travelers” Season 3 (Dec. 14), “Terrace House: Opening New Doors” Part 5 (Dec. 18), “Perfume” (Dec. 21), “Diablero” (Dec. 21) and “Murder Mountain” (Dec. 28)‘American Graffiti’Starts streaming: Dec. 7‘American Graffiti’Starts streaming: Dec. 7Pre-“Star Wars,” George Lucas had his first box office success with this poignant nostalgia piece, set within the car-crazy teen culture of suburban California in 1962. A cast of future stars — including Ron Howard, Richard Dreyfuss, Cindy Williams, Suzanne Somers and Harrison Ford — play recently graduated high schoolers, driving through a typical summer night, hooking up and breaking up, while listening to the DJ Wolfman Jack on the radio. The mostly plotless “night in the life” approach of “American Graffiti” became a common way to tell stories about youth in transition, focusing more on the feel of a time and place than on any big drama.Pre-“Star Wars,” George Lucas had his first box office success with this poignant nostalgia piece, set within the car-crazy teen culture of suburban California in 1962. A cast of future stars — including Ron Howard, Richard Dreyfuss, Cindy Williams, Suzanne Somers and Harrison Ford — play recently graduated high schoolers, driving through a typical summer night, hooking up and breaking up, while listening to the DJ Wolfman Jack on the radio. The mostly plotless “night in the life” approach of “American Graffiti” became a common way to tell stories about youth in transition, focusing more on the feel of a time and place than on any big drama.——‘Dumplin’’Starts streaming: Dec. 7‘Dumplin’’Starts streaming: Dec. 7Jennifer Aniston plays a high-maintenance former beauty queen, and the “Patti Cake$” actress Danielle Macdonald is her plus-sized teenaged daughter, in “Dumplin’,” an adaptation of Julie Murphy’s best-selling young adult novel, directed by choreographer Anne Fletcher from a screenplay by Kristin Hahn. When the high schooler decides to enter a pageant to impress a boy she likes, she has to overcome the skepticism of her fellow contestants — not to mention her overeager mom. Thanks partly to the soundtrack, which is loaded with new and old Dolly Parton songs, “Dumplin’” is a musical comedy with broad appeal.Jennifer Aniston plays a high-maintenance former beauty queen, and the “Patti Cake$” actress Danielle Macdonald is her plus-sized teenaged daughter, in “Dumplin’,” an adaptation of Julie Murphy’s best-selling young adult novel, directed by choreographer Anne Fletcher from a screenplay by Kristin Hahn. When the high schooler decides to enter a pageant to impress a boy she likes, she has to overcome the skepticism of her fellow contestants — not to mention her overeager mom. Thanks partly to the soundtrack, which is loaded with new and old Dolly Parton songs, “Dumplin’” is a musical comedy with broad appeal.——‘Roma’Starts streaming: Dec. 14‘Roma’Starts streaming: Dec. 14Possibly Netflix’s highest-profile original movie to date, the writer/director/cinematographer Alfonso Cuarón’s semi-autobiographical “Roma” is a sure-fire Oscar-contender, and one of the best films not just of 2018, but of the decade. Shot in crisp black-and-white and set in a middle-class Mexico City neighborhood in the early 1970s, “Roma” tracks the breakup of a marriage from the perspective of the family’s maid/nanny Cleo (played by Yalitza Aparicio), who’s going through her own romantic troubles. Though the story’s modest and domestic narrative, Cuarón stages it with some of the aesthetic bravura he brought to his other films “Children of Men” and “Gravity,” with breathtakingly choreographed long takes.Possibly Netflix’s highest-profile original movie to date, the writer/director/cinematographer Alfonso Cuarón’s semi-autobiographical “Roma” is a sure-fire Oscar-contender, and one of the best films not just of 2018, but of the decade. Shot in crisp black-and-white and set in a middle-class Mexico City neighborhood in the early 1970s, “Roma” tracks the breakup of a marriage from the perspective of the family’s maid/nanny Cleo (played by Yalitza Aparicio), who’s going through her own romantic troubles. Though the story’s modest and domestic narrative, Cuarón stages it with some of the aesthetic bravura he brought to his other films “Children of Men” and “Gravity,” with breathtakingly choreographed long takes.——‘Mowgli: Legend of the Jungle’Starts streaming: Dec. 7‘Mowgli: Legend of the Jungle’Starts streaming: Dec. 7For a while it looked like the actor/director Andy Serkis’ adaptation of Rudyard Kipling’s “All the Mowgli Stories” was going to compete directly in theaters with Walt Disney’s live-action remake of its own Mowgli movie, “The Jungle Book.” Instead, Warner Bros. delayed the release, then sold the film to Netflix. Meant to cover more of the “coming of age” sweep of Kipling’s Mowgli saga, this version has all the talking animals that “Jungle Book” fans expect (voiced by the likes of Christian Bale, Cate Blanchett, Benedict Cumberbatch and Serkis himself), but sends its hero on more of an emotional journey.For a while it looked like the actor/director Andy Serkis’ adaptation of Rudyard Kipling’s “All the Mowgli Stories” was going to compete directly in theaters with Walt Disney’s live-action remake of its own Mowgli movie, “The Jungle Book.” Instead, Warner Bros. delayed the release, then sold the film to Netflix. Meant to cover more of the “coming of age” sweep of Kipling’s Mowgli saga, this version has all the talking animals that “Jungle Book” fans expect (voiced by the likes of Christian Bale, Cate Blanchett, Benedict Cumberbatch and Serkis himself), but sends its hero on more of an emotional journey.——‘Brooklyn’Starts streaming: Dec. 8‘Brooklyn’Starts streaming: Dec. 8One of the most broadly appealing movies of the 2010s, “Brooklyn” stars Saoirse Ronan in the second Oscar-nominated role of her career, playing a meek 1950s Irish shopgirl who finds an unexpected inner strength when she moves to New York. Based on a Colm Tóibín novel (adapted by director John Crowley and screenwriter Nick Hornby), this handsomely photographed period romance has vivid characters, snappy dialogue and something subtle yet moving to say about the importance of embracing the terrifying freedom of choice. This is an unexpectedly profound crowd-pleaser.One of the most broadly appealing movies of the 2010s, “Brooklyn” stars Saoirse Ronan in the second Oscar-nominated role of her career, playing a meek 1950s Irish shopgirl who finds an unexpected inner strength when she moves to New York. Based on a Colm Tóibín novel (adapted by director John Crowley and screenwriter Nick Hornby), this handsomely photographed period romance has vivid characters, snappy dialogue and something subtle yet moving to say about the importance of embracing the terrifying freedom of choice. This is an unexpectedly profound crowd-pleaser.——‘Springsteen on Broadway’Starts streaming: Dec. 16‘Springsteen on Broadway’Starts streaming: Dec. 16If you couldn’t make it to Bruce Springsteen’s hugely popular Broadway residency (and let’s face it, few could), Netflix will be celebrating the end of a yearlong run with a permanent document of this one-of-a-kind production. An evening of songs and stories — filled with revealing anecdotes about the singer-songwriter’s tumultuous personal life — “Springsteen on Broadway” puts classic rock staples like “Dancing in the Dark” and “Born to Run” in a new context, with the help of the Boss’s lengthy intros and acoustic arrangements.If you couldn’t make it to Bruce Springsteen’s hugely popular Broadway residency (and let’s face it, few could), Netflix will be celebrating the end of a yearlong run with a permanent document of this one-of-a-kind production. An evening of songs and stories — filled with revealing anecdotes about the singer-songwriter’s tumultuous personal life — “Springsteen on Broadway” puts classic rock staples like “Dancing in the Dark” and “Born to Run” in a new context, with the help of the Boss’s lengthy intros and acoustic arrangements.——‘Bird Box’Starts streaming: Dec. 21‘Bird Box’Starts streaming: Dec. 21Josh Malerman’s acclaimed post-apocalyptic novel “Bird Box” comes to the screen, courtesy of the eclectic Danish director Susanne Bier and the “Arrival” screenwriter Eric Heisserer. Sandra Bullock plays a mother trying to get her kids to safety, in a world that’s recently suffered a mysterious plague of suicides. The film flashes back to the start of the disaster, with an excellent cast (including Sarah Paulson, John Malkovich, BD Wong, Jacki Weaver, Lil Rel Howery, and “Moonlight” actor Trevante Rhodes) playing out the eerie phenomenon of a society inexplicably gone mad.Josh Malerman’s acclaimed post-apocalyptic novel “Bird Box” comes to the screen, courtesy of the eclectic Danish director Susanne Bier and the “Arrival” screenwriter Eric Heisserer. Sandra Bullock plays a mother trying to get her kids to safety, in a world that’s recently suffered a mysterious plague of suicides. The film flashes back to the start of the disaster, with an excellent cast (including Sarah Paulson, John Malkovich, BD Wong, Jacki Weaver, Lil Rel Howery, and “Moonlight” actor Trevante Rhodes) playing out the eerie phenomenon of a society inexplicably gone mad.——‘Fences’Starts streaming: Dec. 30‘Fences’Starts streaming: Dec. 30Denzel Washington made a rare trip into the director’s chair for this faithful big-screen adaptation of August Wilson’s Pulitzer-winning play, reprising a role that once netted him a Tony. Washington and Viola Davis (herself a Tony- and an Oscar-winner for “Fences”) play a feisty 1950s working-class Pittsburgh couple, who constantly argue about money and family and child-rearing, but stay together anyway, to the amazement and dismay of their sensitive son. Masterfully acted, the movie “Fences” doesn’t present Wilson’s work in an overtly cinematic manner. Instead, Washington takes his cues from the text, which finds complexity in the ordinary.Denzel Washington made a rare trip into the director’s chair for this faithful big-screen adaptation of August Wilson’s Pulitzer-winning play, reprising a role that once netted him a Tony. Washington and Viola Davis (herself a Tony- and an Oscar-winner for “Fences”) play a feisty 1950s working-class Pittsburgh couple, who constantly argue about money and family and child-rearing, but stay together anyway, to the amazement and dismay of their sensitive son. Masterfully acted, the movie “Fences” doesn’t present Wilson’s work in an overtly cinematic manner. Instead, Washington takes his cues from the text, which finds complexity in the ordinary.——Also of Interest: “Battle” (Dec. 1), “Captain Fantastic” (Dec. 4), “Winchester” (Dec. 6), “5 Star Christmas” (Dec. 7), “About a Boy” (Dec. 7), “The American Meme” (Dec. 7), “Love Actually” (Dec. 7), “Scent of a Woman” (Dec. 7), “The Founder” (Dec. 12), “Out of Many, One” (Dec. 12), “Hello, My Name Is Doris” (Dec. 15), “Aquamarine” (Dec. 26), “Allied” (Dec. 30) and “Monster Trucks” (Dec. 30)Also of Interest: “Battle” (Dec. 1), “Captain Fantastic” (Dec. 4), “Winchester” (Dec. 6), “5 Star Christmas” (Dec. 7), “About a Boy” (Dec. 7), “The American Meme” (Dec. 7), “Love Actually” (Dec. 7), “Scent of a Woman” (Dec. 7), “The Founder” (Dec. 12), “Out of Many, One” (Dec. 12), “Hello, My Name Is Doris” (Dec. 15), “Aquamarine” (Dec. 26), “Allied” (Dec. 30) and “Monster Trucks” (Dec. 30)Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing.—‘Watership Down’Starts streaming: Dec. 23The latest animated adaptation of Richard Adams’ magnificent adventure novel “Watership Down” is the most ambitious and expensive yet: a four-part animated miniseries, co-produced by Netflix and the BBC, with big names like James McAvoy, Ben Kingsley, Gemma Arterton, Rosamund Pike, John Boyega and Peter Capaldi providing the voices. It’s no accident that this new “Watership Down” is debuting right before Christmas. The producers are undoubtedly hoping that families will gather around the TV over the holiday season to experience Adams’ classic tale of rabbits on a courageous quest to find a new home.Also of Interest: “Bad Blood” (Dec. 7), “Dogs of Berlin” Season 1 (Dec. 7), “The Hook Up Plan” (Dec. 7), “The Ranch” Part 6 (Dec. 7), “Fuller House” Season 4 (Dec. 14), “Inside the Real Narcos” Series 1 (Dec. 14), “Travelers” Season 3 (Dec. 14), “Terrace House: Opening New Doors” Part 5 (Dec. 18), “Perfume” (Dec. 21), “Diablero” (Dec. 21) and “Murder Mountain” (Dec. 28)‘American Graffiti’Starts streaming: Dec. 7Pre-“Star Wars,” George Lucas had his first box office success with this poignant nostalgia piece, set within the car-crazy teen culture of suburban California in 1962. A cast of future stars — including Ron Howard, Richard Dreyfuss, Cindy Williams, Suzanne Somers and Harrison Ford — play recently graduated high schoolers, driving through a typical summer night, hooking up and breaking up, while listening to the DJ Wolfman Jack on the radio. The mostly plotless “night in the life” approach of “American Graffiti” became a common way to tell stories about youth in transition, focusing more on the feel of a time and place than on any big drama.—‘Dumplin’’Starts streaming: Dec. 7Jennifer Aniston plays a high-maintenance former beauty queen, and the “Patti Cake$” actress Danielle Macdonald is her plus-sized teenaged daughter, in “Dumplin’,” an adaptation of Julie Murphy’s best-selling young adult novel, directed by choreographer Anne Fletcher from a screenplay by Kristin Hahn. When the high schooler decides to enter a pageant to impress a boy she likes, she has to overcome the skepticism of her fellow contestants — not to mention her overeager mom. Thanks partly to the soundtrack, which is loaded with new and old Dolly Parton songs, “Dumplin’” is a musical comedy with broad appeal.—‘Roma’Starts streaming: Dec. 14Possibly Netflix’s highest-profile original movie to date, the writer/director/cinematographer Alfonso Cuarón’s semi-autobiographical “Roma” is a sure-fire Oscar-contender, and one of the best films not just of 2018, but of the decade. Shot in crisp black-and-white and set in a middle-class Mexico City neighborhood in the early 1970s, “Roma” tracks the breakup of a marriage from the perspective of the family’s maid/nanny Cleo (played by Yalitza Aparicio), who’s going through her own romantic troubles. Though the story’s modest and domestic narrative, Cuarón stages it with some of the aesthetic bravura he brought to his other films “Children of Men” and “Gravity,” with breathtakingly choreographed long takes.—‘Mowgli: Legend of the Jungle’Starts streaming: Dec. 7For a while it looked like the actor/director Andy Serkis’ adaptation of Rudyard Kipling’s “All the Mowgli Stories” was going to compete directly in theaters with Walt Disney’s live-action remake of its own Mowgli movie, “The Jungle Book.” Instead, Warner Bros. delayed the release, then sold the film to Netflix. Meant to cover more of the “coming of age” sweep of Kipling’s Mowgli saga, this version has all the talking animals that “Jungle Book” fans expect (voiced by the likes of Christian Bale, Cate Blanchett, Benedict Cumberbatch and Serkis himself), but sends its hero on more of an emotional journey.—‘Brooklyn’Starts streaming: Dec. 8One of the most broadly appealing movies of the 2010s, “Brooklyn” stars Saoirse Ronan in the second Oscar-nominated role of her career, playing a meek 1950s Irish shopgirl who finds an unexpected inner strength when she moves to New York. Based on a Colm Tóibín novel (adapted by director John Crowley and screenwriter Nick Hornby), this handsomely photographed period romance has vivid characters, snappy dialogue and something subtle yet moving to say about the importance of embracing the terrifying freedom of choice. This is an unexpectedly profound crowd-pleaser.—‘Springsteen on Broadway’Starts streaming: Dec. 16If you couldn’t make it to Bruce Springsteen’s hugely popular Broadway residency (and let’s face it, few could), Netflix will be celebrating the end of a yearlong run with a permanent document of this one-of-a-kind production. An evening of songs and stories — filled with revealing anecdotes about the singer-songwriter’s tumultuous personal life — “Springsteen on Broadway” puts classic rock staples like “Dancing in the Dark” and “Born to Run” in a new context, with the help of the Boss’s lengthy intros and acoustic arrangements.—‘Bird Box’Starts streaming: Dec. 21Josh Malerman’s acclaimed post-apocalyptic novel “Bird Box” comes to the screen, courtesy of the eclectic Danish director Susanne Bier and the “Arrival” screenwriter Eric Heisserer. Sandra Bullock plays a mother trying to get her kids to safety, in a world that’s recently suffered a mysterious plague of suicides. The film flashes back to the start of the disaster, with an excellent cast (including Sarah Paulson, John Malkovich, BD Wong, Jacki Weaver, Lil Rel Howery, and “Moonlight” actor Trevante Rhodes) playing out the eerie phenomenon of a society inexplicably gone mad.—‘Fences’Starts streaming: Dec. 30Denzel Washington made a rare trip into the director’s chair for this faithful big-screen adaptation of August Wilson’s Pulitzer-winning play, reprising a role that once netted him a Tony. Washington and Viola Davis (herself a Tony- and an Oscar-winner for “Fences”) play a feisty 1950s working-class Pittsburgh couple, who constantly argue about money and family and child-rearing, but stay together anyway, to the amazement and dismay of their sensitive son. Masterfully acted, the movie “Fences” doesn’t present Wilson’s work in an overtly cinematic manner. Instead, Washington takes his cues from the text, which finds complexity in the ordinary.—Also of Interest: “Battle” (Dec. 1), “Captain Fantastic” (Dec. 4), “Winchester” (Dec. 6), “5 Star Christmas” (Dec. 7), “About a Boy” (Dec. 7), “The American Meme” (Dec. 7), “Love Actually” (Dec. 7), “Scent of a Woman” (Dec. 7), “The Founder” (Dec. 12), “Out of Many, One” (Dec. 12), “Hello, My Name Is Doris” (Dec. 15), “Aquamarine” (Dec. 26), “Allied” (Dec. 30) and “Monster Trucks” (Dec. 30)Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.