AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA at Zankel Hall (Nov. 2, 7:30 p.m.). In addition to Joan Tower’s “Chamber Dance,” this concert includes two premieres: Valerie Coleman’s “Phenomenal Women,” a concerto for wind quintet (here, it’s the Imani Winds); and Alex Temple’s “Three Principles of Noir,” a monodrama for the singer Meaghan Burke that’s directed by Amber Treadway. George Manahan conducts.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgMAHAN ESFAHANI at Miller Theater (Nov. 7-8, 8 p.m.). Making the harpsichord modern again, Esfahani has a happy habit of commissioning new works for his instrument and unearths a rich repertoire of 20th-century pieces that languished unplayed as the early-music movement took hold. Selections from Bach’s “The Well-Tempered Clavier” sit alongside the premiere of George Lewis’s “Timelike Weave” on Wednesday and Berio’s “Rounds” on Thursday.212-854-7799, millertheatre.comPAUL LEWIS at Washington Irving High School (Nov. 3, 7:30 p.m.). The Peoples’ Symphony Concerts always punch far above their weight, offering bargain-basement tickets to hear serious artists. Lewis, though, is not just any old major artist; rather, he’s one of the major pianists of our time. Here he plays two sonatas by Haydn; Beethoven’s earlier set of Bagatelles, Op. 33; and Brahms’s Fantasies, Op. 116.212-586-4680, pscny.org‘MEFISTOFELE’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Nov. 8, 7:30 p.m.; through Dec. 1). More famous as one of Verdi’s librettists, Arrigo Boito also wrote this opera, appearing at the Met for the first time in nearly two decades in a production by Robert Carsen. Carlo Rizzi conducts a strong cast, with Christian Van Horn in the title role, Michael Fabiano as Faust and Angela Meade as Margherita.212-870-7457, metopera.orgMIVOS STRING QUARTET at the Italian Academy (Nov. 7, 7 p.m.). A daring new-music quartet gives a free concert, with music by Stefano Gervasoni, Simone Movio, Zosha Di Castri and Ivan Fedele.italianacademy.columbia.eduNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Nov. 7-8, 7:30 p.m.; Nov. 10, 8 p.m.). Ivan Fischer, always an innovator, is on the podium for this week’s subscription concerts, leading Beethoven’s Symphony No. 4, Schubert’s Symphony No. 5 and an arrangement of Schubert’s “Der Hirt auf dem Felsen,” with the soprano Miah Persson and the orchestra’s principal clarinetist, Anthony McGill.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgRZEWSKI FESTIVAL at Spectrum (Nov. 4, 5:30 p.m.; Nov. 5-8, 7 p.m.). This weeklong celebration of one of America’s most important composers offers highlights throughout, not least Ursula Oppens and Jerome Lowenthal’s performance of “Four Hands” on Tuesday and Lisa Moore in various piano pieces on Thursday. Sunday’s concert looks like a particularly solid bet, with three pianists in action, including Corey Hamm in that immense set of variations “The People United Will Never Be Defeated!”spectrumnyc.comWEST-EASTERN DIVAN ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (Nov. 8, 8 p.m.). Still promoting dialogue in the Middle East, as hard as that has become, Daniel Barenboim’s ensemble arrives in New York for one night only. On the bill for this Isaac Stern Memorial Concert are Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 5 and Strauss’s “Don Quixote,” with the violist Miriam Manasherov and the cellist Kian Soltani.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgAdvertisement