AdvertisementSupported byBy Sean L. McCarthyOur guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BLACK WOMEN IN COMEDY FESTIVAL at various locations (Feb. 28-March 3). Don’t let the end of February curtail your awareness of African-American contributions to our culture. Thanks to this new festival, black women in all shades, shapes and sizes of funny will have an opportunity to shine in live stand-up, sketch and improv shows all weekend at four clubs in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn: the Corners, Joloff, Brooklyn House of Comedy and Tilly’s BKLYN. Headliners include Calise Hawkins and Pat Brown, who you may have seen before on late-night TV, and plenty of comedians you’ve never seen on TV but hopefully will someday. blackwomenincomedyfestival.com‘DAVID AND KATIE GET REMARRIED’ at the Kraine Theater (March 3, 6:50 p.m.; March 5, 5:30 p.m.; March 7, 10:30 p.m.). Presented as part of 2019 Frigid New York, this musical comedy stars David Carl and Katie Hartman as a horrible couple who keep breaking up and getting back together. You’re cordially invited to their second wedding, which boasts a unity volcano. Whatever that is. 212-777-6088, horsetrade.info‘AN INCONVENIENT TALK SHOW’ at Caveat (March 5, 7 p.m.). Rollie Williams portrays Al Gore, the former vice president, in a late-night comedy event that brings together comedians and academics to tackle the global climate crisis. This time the show features Christi Chiello, Asher Perlman, Shannon Odell, Adrian Frimpong and Tasha Milkman. 212-228-2100, caveat.nyc[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]KEVIN NEALON at Carolines on Broadway (Feb. 28, 7:30 p.m.; March 1-2, 7:30 and 10 p.m.). This comedian has been reliably present in the television world in the two decades since he anchored Weekend Update on “Saturday Night Live.” From his past critical acclaim on “Weeds” to his current role on the CBS sitcom “Man With a Plan,” Nealon continues to serve as a funny foil. And after all this time, he has never stopped performing stand-up. Catch him this weekend headlining this venerable Times Square comedy club. 212-757-4100, carolines.com‘THE “UNITED” STATES OF OUTRAGE’ at Q.E.D. (March 2, 7:30 p.m.). Charles McBee invites a panel of comedians to let loose about what’s happening in the nation today. Guests include Alex English, a consultant for the comedy talk shows “The Rundown With Robin Thede” and “The Fix,” and Julia Young, a writer for “Desus & Mero” and a past cast member on MTV’s “Wild ’n Out.” Real talk. Real funny. 347-451-3873, qedastoria.comWEEK AT THE CREEK WITH JORDAN TEMPLE at the Creek and the Cave (March 1-8, 7 p.m.). This comedian not only performed stand-up on “Conan,” but also created and produced the cult-hit stage production “Hidden Fences.” Temple is also a new story editor for the award-winning Amazon series “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” and is working on a new hour of stand-up. His “Maisel” co-workers Noah Gardenswartz and Alison Leiby will open for his run at the Creek. Ticket proceeds will go to the American Bird Conservancy in the memory of the comedian Kevin Barnett. 917-806-6692, creeklic.comAdvertisement