AdvertisementSupported byBy Salamishah TilletFAYETTEVILLE, Ga. — Back in the early 1990s, I had a weekly appointment to watch the sitcom “Martin.” Though Fox repeatedly experimented with the day and time the show aired, as it sought to reach our newly coveted demographic of a “young urban audience,” my friends, and about another 20 undergrads in our predominantly African-American dorm at the University of Pennsylvania, always watched together.Unaware of the growing offscreen tension between the show’s co-stars, Martin Lawrence and Tisha Campbell, we’d champion their characters’ over-the-top love, howl at the snarky digs Pam (Tichina Arnold) leveled at him or simply debate the merit of his character’s hip-hop fashion. We were Black Twitter before social media, making real-time, communal, pop-culture commentary without the luxury of cellphones or laptops.This is why during my May visit to the set here of “Love Is ___,” an Oprah Winfrey Network dramedy from the veteran showrunner Mara Brock Akil (“Being Mary Jane,” “The Game,” “Girlfriends”) that takes place in 1990s Los Angeles, I felt a sense of déjà vu. There were the vibrantly colored posters of the stars of “Marvin,” the fictional show within Ms. Akil’s latest show, reminiscent of the publicity materials for “Martin.” (Even the typefaces are similar.) And the set for “Marvin” also included an apartment that took its pastel design cues from the earlier show.Featuring African-American characters who came of age during the 1990s, “Love Is ___,” which debuts on Tuesday, explores how the hip-hop and TV shows of the day not only influenced each other but shaped a whole generation of African-American television and film writers, producers and directors like Ms. Akil. With shows like “A Different World,” “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air,” “Family Matters,” “Living Single,” “Sister, Sister” and “The Steve Harvey Show,” it was the golden age of the black sitcom.“The 1990s was all about hope and aspiration and the possibility of things,” Ms. Akil said.“I’m a product of that time,” she added. “There was a flood of writers at that time because they were building out new distribution lines — WB, UPN and Fox — then cable shortly thereafter. It felt like from the media perspective, black people were rolling. Puffy was throwing money around in music videos. But on the other hand, if you look at the 1990s, black unemployment was still very much high.”Rather than evade these social contradictions, “Love Is ___” embraces them. Ms. Akil has departed from the completely fictionalized format of her previous shows, instead using the lives and careers of herself and her husband of 19 years (and producing partner of 14), Salim, as the inspiration for the show’s main characters, Nuri and Yasir.Told from the perspective of the couple’s present-day selves, the show is mainly a series of flashbacks that feature younger versions of Nuri and Yasir. “Love Is __” opens with the two in radically different stages of their careers. Nuri (Michele Weaver) is able to use her salary from “Marvin” to buy her first home but is still struggling to assert her opinion in the show’s predominantly male writers’ room. Yasir (William Catlett), meanwhile, is living out of his car and waiting for his big break in directing. In the first three episodes, she juggles three romantic partners; Yasir is trying to disentangle himself from his on-again, off-again girlfriend in order to court Nuri.The Akils initially met in Los Angeles in 1996, when Mara was an unemployed writer; they reconnected two years later when she wrote for the UPN breakout hit, “Moesha.” Though both raised by single mothers, the two come from very different backgrounds. Mara grew up middle class in Los Angeles and Kansas City, Mo., and upon graduation from Northwestern, worked as a production assistant on the Fox sitcom “The Sinbad Show.” Salim, who grew up Richmond, Calif., saw his mother go to prison when he was a teenager; he fathered his first of four children at the age of 13. (He and Ms. Akil have two together.)To jog her memory of that time, Ms. Akil looked at pictures, scoured journals and listened to a lot of the era’s popular music like  “If You Love Me” by Brownstone or P.M. Dawn’s “I’d Die Without You.” She then recorded her recollections out loud in front of a large group. “I had to hear myself say it and then tell Salim, ‘I’m thinking of going in this direction’ so we can decide,” Ms. Akil said.For her husband, who is the showrunner and an executive producer of “Black Lightning and has an executive producer credit on “Love Is __,” the memories are a bit jarring. “It is definitely a bit surreal to watch those moments and recognize certain things that are from our lives,” Mr. Akil said.Capturing the intensity and intimacy of such a complicated relationship could have been daunting for the cast. “I wanted to get as close to Salim as possible,” Mr. Catlett, who also is a writer on the show, said. “I remember watching him look at Mara once on the set of ‘Black Lightning.’ He later posted that image on Instagram with the phrase ‘Panacea.’” Mr. Catlett recalled that in that moment, he “understood what it meant in the script when it said, ‘Nuri saved my life.’ If I get the essence of how that man looked at that woman then there is nothing else as an actor I need to know.”Such nuanced representations of African-American heterosexual romance can be readily found now on shows like “This Is Us,” “Grey’s Anatomy,” “Queen Sugar” and “Insecure.” But these story lines were significantly less textured in 1990s black sitcoms. At the time, audiences were more likely to see these images in a film like Theodore Witcher’s 1997 “Love Jones,” an indie film turned cult classic that Ms. Akil invoked as a model for her show as well.The casting of Kadeem Hardison, best known for playing Dwayne Wayne on “The Cosby Show” spinoff “A Different World,” as the fictional executive producer of “Marvin” allows “Love Is __” to make its most playful meta commentary on the limits imposed on the 1990s black sitcom. “I know that Mara was inspired by what she saw me and Jasmine Guy doing when we played Dwayne and Whitley on ‘A Different World,’” Mr. Hardison said of the show set on the campus of the historically black Hillman College.“But, I find that Nuri and Yasir are not just updated versions of our characters, but more realistic ones as well,” he added. “Back then, we were on a sitcom and our love story was told that way. “This is a more grounded approach with an edge that we and other comedies of that era couldn’t have back then.”Ms. Akil, one of a handful of black women who have created their own shows, remains a rare link between the more formulaic plot of black sitcoms in the 1990s and the current wave of experimental storytelling of African-American life on television.“I don’t just want to call it in,” she said. “At a point in a veteran’s career, you could just print another “Girlfriends” and call it something else. But my spirit keeps wanting to tell new stories, find new ways to express our humanity, keep painting that nuance.”She went on: “But with this particular project, I really set out for it to be like an independent film — 10 little movies within this larger movie. Often times, we don’t get to play in that space. So I wanted to take this canvas and stretch it, and make room and space for our way of being seen and heard and being expressed.”An earlier version of this article misstated the title of one of the television shows. It is “This Is Us,” not “All of Us.”Advertisement