AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkEvery week when we write this roundup, we have to stop ourselves from declaring that this batch of student comments is the best ever, because we know it’s likely that we’ll want to make the same declaration the very next week.As former high school teachers, we’ve been struck by how much students have grown this fall, especially in their ability to address our writing prompts in interesting and meaningful ways. And we think we know why: practice makes perfect. We see some of the same classes weigh in almost every week — we're looking at you, Bryant, Ark.; Danvers, Mass.; Hanover Horton; Hoggard High School; Ohio; Oxford Middle School; Philadelphia; Providence; Vermont and YC CLIP— to the point that we’re beginning to recognize the voices of many students. We are proud to see them develop.Below are some of the excellent responses we received to three prompts this week. They show how easily and deeply students seem to be able to talk about the range of issues we throw at them. Topics include ethical questions about human gene editing, online gaming and the fraught issue of getting good grades.Finally, we’d like to welcome a new class from The Greene School in Rhode Island, and remind you that you can find the final Current Events Conversation roundup of 2018 on Dec. 20. After that, like you, we’ll be taking a holiday break.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted.__________On Nov. 26, a scientist in China announced that he had created the world’s first genetically edited babies, twin girls who were born in November, by altering a gene in the embryos. His goal was to make them resistant to H.I.V. The experiment sparked a furious global debate about the ethics of human gene editing, and we invited students to add their voices to the conversation.The comments were so good that we’re highlighting far more than we usually do — and even then we had to leave out many we admired (though you can read them all here).As you’ll see, the best commenters all did one or more of the following things: They added original thought and nuance to the discussion instead of just repeating what was in the article; they considered how their own feelings and beliefs shaped their responses; they used analogies to illustrate their points; they engaged with competing ideas intelligently and civilly; and they connected the topic to current events, history and literature. Have a look.Living in a disease-free worldPersonally, I believe that Dr. He’s experiment is just the beginning to a possible safer and future for all the experience it. As every parent tries to have healthier, stronger, or prettier baby, via prenatal vitamins, folic acid, or getting the flu shot during pregnancy, an extra precaution of genetically modifying an embryo would be a step further. Leading to fewer deaths from common diseases, cancers, or even extreme illnesses, but instead of in a daily pill or an annual shot, a one time change before conception. Not to mention, if scientists could actually successfully alter the fetus intellectually, cancer, AIDS, and several other diseases could hopefully be cured within mere decades.While there could be a slight risk to the child, and in some cases, to the mother, that should be a valid option for the mother to choose. We already have genetically altered fruits, vegetables, pets, and livestock, why not add in genetically altered humans for a better future? In the 1970’s, the fear was of doctors playing God by helping families conceive through virtual fertilization, and no one was smat or harmed in any way. Why should we fear genetically edited humans?— Rachel Grantham, Bryant, Ark.I understand where people are coming from when they support genetic modification for the purpose or eliminating disease; however I personally do not support it. I like to think about all those living today with the diseases we are trying to get rid of. To those people their disease is just another part of life, another part of who they are. Who are we to say that what makes them who they are is not okay and needs to be fixed. I believe that our exploration in editing humans will only string a large sticky web of moral and political correctness issues that could easily be avoided if we just let things be.— Riley Blanchard, Losing what makes us humanWhat I fear with others is that people would use this to make them very academically enhanced, athletically enhanced, or maybe even both. This, in my opinion, would not make them human. It would make them an experiment only born for what their altered genes were changed for.In my mind, a human is a being that is born to learn and work at their own pace ultimately fulfilling their discovered role in society. Changing their genetics would change what they were destined to become or do. So in conclusion, changing genes to prevent a disease is good, and changing them for mental or physical enhancements is bad.— Chas Hull, Kent, OhioWhile the twins were modified for the sake of health concerns if genetically editing humans becomes more socially acceptable children will be changed for vanity. This could reduce babies to mere fashion statements. Most children already have a hard time finding their own identities, if their entire beings are specifically designed it could remove any sense of self-image.— Keira Braithwaite, Hoggard HighMost religions believe in a creator, one being who made all of us. What happens when you realize your creator is no longer whichever being you believe in, but rather a scientist in a lab fiddling with your genetic code like a chimpanzee fitting star and triangle shaped blocks into the proper slot. To take away our flaws, our differences, would be to remove what makes us human. To subtract individuality and leave a race of perfect people, each the same perfect as the next.— River,VermontDystopian nightmareOnly the rich would be able to afford such procedures, and it would result in higher class divides. Imagine the implications of a society where people would be able to tell how rich or poor you were by looking at the attractiveness of your face. Imagine no more success stories of the unknown small-town kid making it to the Olympics, but always the children of millionaires. The intelligence divide alone is horrifying to even think about. Would the smart rich pity the stupid poor? Would they treat them in a patronizing way, like pets, or cattle?People say there would be restrictions on these things, and that the slippery slope is a fallacy, but give people an inch and they will take a mile. Even with restrictions, if legalized gene editing existed in any form there would most certainly be a black market for it, for those with enough money to throw around. It is better to find the cures for diseases then try to prevent them in the womb, because we risk losing our humanity in the process.— Natasha A., Bryant, Ark.Although I applaud He Jiankui’s efforts in saving the lives of two little girls, I fear the long term implications that accompany the practice of gene editing. With this success by Jiankui, other, less responsible countries could be inclined to use the dangerous idea of gene editing for personal gain. An example could be a dictator allowing the experimentation of gene editing on unborn children in an effort to create super-soldiers. Before deciding this is well outside the realm of possibility, think back only 20 years ago when Saddam Hussein mercilessly ruled Iraq and ordered mass genocide.— Daniel Walter, Bryant, Ark.The science that allowed us to create genetically modified humans is dangerous and could lead to catostrauphic events … While creating medically perfect humans may seem great, disease or disorders don’t allow the population to reach its max. Eliminating any illness would exponentially increase our population, and throw off the balance of the human-to-resource ratio. If there are more humans than resources or space available, war will break out. Countries will raid each other for their basic needs. More people will suffer than those who suffer with illness today, and we will lose our private possessions or property.— Zoe Lee, Hoggard, Wilmington, N.C.Dr. He has claimed to have genetically altered an embryo of a human, and scientists are calling him “crazy.” I do not feel like I know enough about this certain topic to form an opinion by itself. You can look at dog breeding. I researched this before and the effects of breeding dogs for looks is dangerous. Almost every bred dog will develop a medical condition that can be life-threatening and it’s due to the neglect of people who breed the dogs for looks and what satisfies the people. These scientists today are worried about this same thing happening to humans. It is worrying that people will try to make an athletic person, or a smart one but ignore the consequences and this can create an undesired effect through the generations.— Nick Gallo, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C. What if changing this portion of the twins’ genetic code makes them more susceptible to incurable diseases? The unknown consequences aren’t worth the risk. Furthermore, using the example of the twins in this article, genetically modified embryos can’t consent to being genetically modified, yet they must live their lifetime with the consequences of it. This is unethical as well.— Sloane F., Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.How much should human gene editing be regulated?The field of genetic engineering is one of the most exciting areas in modern science. It promises the ability to manipulate the genomes of plants, animals, and even humans, allowing for favorable traits to be selected. With it, we can cure diseases, eradicate congenital diseases like Down Syndrome, and pave a new future for humanity. However, the scientific and societal risks of designing human genomes far outweigh their benefits.Firstly, where does it stop?It may begin with a well-meaning researcher like Dr. He, making children resistant to HIV, but what will stop rouge scientists from twisting this technology to create scarcely human abominations of science? We have no answers for these questions.Additionally, genome editing will undoubtedly be an expensive process that only the rich can afford. Even if it is regulated, the upper classes will use the practice to create children that have distinct advantages in every facet of life, allowing them to succeed more easily and widening the societal gap between rich and poor, as genetically enhanced children are taking every well-paying job away from their peers.Finally, is the fact that genome editing is not an exact science. Even with the precise CRISPR method mentioned in the article, mistakes can be made. We are not the masters of nature, nor should we ever see ourselves as such. Genetic modification of humans should be outlawed in all forms. Just because we can do something does not mean we should.— Jake Hession, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.From the earliest days of agriculture to the Industrial Revolution, humans have been creating new ways to make life easier and enjoyable. Along with the enjoyment of life comes safety and health. Sanitation, vaccines, hospitals and countless other cultural icons have risen to prolong the human lifespan. As such, genetic modification could further prolong human life by eliminating harmful diseases, like Dr. He’s effort to eliminate H.I.V. from the twin girls.However genetic editing should only be used for medical purposes, with the only intention being to protect humans from disease. These limitations should exist because humans exist to prosper using their God-given talents, not to have their life literally hand picked for them.Additionally, genetic editing should be extremely restrictive, with only approved medical professionals being able to use the technology — otherwise genetic editing could be abused to create “perfect” humans with damaging consequences.People often criticize genetic editing because of its ability to give some humans an unfair advantage over others, but healthy people already DO have an unfair advantage over those born with a genetic disease, so genetic modification could exist to allow everyone an equal chance at life. With enough regulation and research into making genetic editing as safe as possible, perhaps we could continue the work of our predecessors by improving the quality of life while giving every person an equal opportunity to thrive.— Stanley, Bryant, Ark.Doctors should be able to experiment freely with stem cells and embryo cells. The whole idea that an embryo is alive and it has a soul is utter nonsense. How is science supposed to be able to progress if the government and public is regulating it on ideas that were made in a book that have zero evidence behind them. I believe that the farther you go back in history religion is more and more ingrained in society so the “scare” over I.V.F was simply because of “beliefs”. As we progress in time science and reason will overtake more and more beliefs— Frank Lyons, HoggardThe writer describes this futures as a “slippery slope,” but I think this analogy is incorrect, portraying this technology as some that will inevitably become corrupted. Instead, I like to think of the moral conundrum as a light dimmer. Yes, if we take this newfound control to the extreme, we will create a dark, almost dystopian world. But, to dismiss this idea simply for being too risky would be throwing away the chance to make out world brighter. I truly believe that in the right hands, this new method can eradicate some of the toughest problems facing our world today.— Ashley Anderson, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.__________“If you always succeed in school, you’re not setting yourself up for success in life,” writes Adam Grant in “What Straight-A Students Get Wrong.” He says that when students pursue that elusive 4.0, they often end up sacrificing their health, social life, passions and creativity.That certainly struck a chord with the students on our site. With heart-wrenching anecdotes, honest introspection and an abundance of wisdom, nearly 150 teenagers told us what it takes to be a straight-A student — and questioned whether it’s all worth it.The pressure of the 4.0Myself, along with thousands of school students, put an immense amount of pressure on ourselves when it comes to academics, creating stress and unattainable standards. Academic excellence is a huge priority of mine, however my family’s pressure for me to succeed in school does not help with my academic confidence or performance. I feel the pursuit for A’s is good, it pushes students to have higher standards for themselves. However, some can get so caught up with the need to be perfect, that they crack under the pressure, affecting their happiness and wellbeing.I have refused to enjoy social situations because I had to study for a test the next day, the test that would bring my grade up from a B+ to an A-. All my life, I’ve been told that in order to get into a good college and get a decent job, you must get good grades in school. This pressure has created the stigma that all students live with throughout their school careers: “If we don’t excel, we fail.”Students, myself included, need to understand that grades are not everything, as long as we put our best effort into our work, we have succeeded. Being an individual, going outside of the box, pushing comfort zones, is what will get you into college or career. I agree with the author when he writes: “Getting straight A’s requires conformity. Having an influential career demands originality.” As much as we feel grades define who we are, they don’t. Qualities like kind, brave, and giving are what define us as individuals.— Elodie Poussard, MassachusettsAs a student from one of the most prestigious schools in Philadelphia, I bet all of the students here can say that straight A’s are always expected. Heck, even our school motto is “dare to be excellent.” My classmates and I are used to maintaining a social life and keeping grades high, but sometimes our grades are not what we expect. During those moments, I feel like I’ve let everyone down. My teachers, friends, and family. School is an ongoing pressure and all I can say is that I, and probably others, will just simply have to endure it until our school years are over.— Kate Chin, PhiladelphiaI admire the kids who can get a B in a class and be fine with it, who go home and if they don’t finish their homework, they accept that they didn’t finish it and move on. And then there’s me, getting worked up over a B on a quiz, panicking when I don’t finish my homework on time, and expecting myself to get all high A’s. It makes me wonder: what’s the difference between me and a B-student? Is the perfectionist actually more successful or no?I rarely ever think about what it will be like when I get to college and it’ll be a whole lot tougher to get all A’s, but I know that I don’t want to be like the student in the article, going to the professor and crying, “I just got my first A-minus.” And then as I continued to read the article, I saw just how right the author of it is: “Getting straight A’s requires conformity. Having an influential career demands originality.” I’d never realized how opposite school and a career are, especially as the article continues on to talk about how Steve Jobs, J.K. Rowling, and MLK Jr. all had bad grades in school. It seems like creativity and perfectionism are two totally different things; I think that a mix of the two is the best way to go. I will still strive for all A’s, but now I know that the occasional B is okay: it shows that I am outside of my comfort zone and building my resilience.— Kiara Neilsen, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.Straight A’s are not a bad thing!I tend to disagree with the article when Grant says “If your goal is to graduate without a blemish on your transcript, you end up taking easier classes” In my personal experience, this is totally off base. Myself and my friends who make straight A’s are usually making those A’s in harder classes than people who do not make A’s. We don’t take classes because we think that they are an easy A, we take them because we are interested in and challenged by them.I also disagree with Grant’s assertion that straight A students should try to get a B before they graduate. I don’t think anyone should try for anything other than an A in a class. If you try your best to get an A, there is no issue if you end up with a B. I think that if you put the work in, A’s will come naturally, and its actually easier than you might expect. Grant sends the wrong message when he encourages people not to do as well as possible.I also disagree with Grant’s point that people who make straight A’s are less creative than others. I think grade has no role in creativity. The most creative people I know tend to also get good grades.The one point that I agree on is that trying to make straight A’s is stressful. I know I have stayed up until one or two a.m. a few times in order to get assignments done. It definitely isn’t fun, but I think that it also teaches perseverance and work ethic which are almost as valuable as creativity.— Will Golder, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.I myself am a straight A student at an amazing school. Getting those grades are one of my top priorities. I don’t do it for the stress of high school, or college; I strive for A’s because I like when I can be proud of something that I did. I like when I can come home to my family and boast about my good grade on something that I worked very hard on. I’m pretty sure my fellow classmates feel the same way. I think that the pursuit of getting A’s is a good thing. To me, it shows that that person works hard, no matter how hard the work is, or whether they’re interested or not.— Rylee, PhiladelphiaThere’s more to life than gradesI am not a straight A student, and never have been. Not one school year in my life have I gotten A honor role. It used to make me upset watching my friends a other classmates get an A on an assignment or test on something and be upset about it. I would think to myself, I would do anything to get the grade you have. But now, It doesn’t affect me at all. I believe grades are just a number.Grades are just a small portion of your life. School is just a small portion of your life. Some kids do not realize that school is just a portion of your life, because it has occupied our entire life so far. But we all have great futures ahead of us. Sometimes, people who failed school are the most successful in life. Your grades do not define who you are and also do not define your intelligence. When I get a bad grade on an assignment I forget about it ten minutes later, because I know it doesn’t define me.— McClaine McIntyre, Wilmington, N.C., Hoggard High SchoolI always try hard to get good grades in every subject but my mom often reminds me that she would rather me not get straight A’s but do something I love like playing sports than to get straight A’s but not do anything else. I think that this is a good point because even if you focus all of your time on academics it doesn’t mean you will know what you want to do as an adult. By doing things you love, you will get a better sense of you passions and what you enjoy. I think that this will be more helpful in life because many people are more successful and happy when they enjoy their job. My goal is to find a job that I love so I look forward to going to work rather than thinking of it as a chore.While I do think it is important to try hard in school and get good grades, there is more to life than test scores. I know both my friends and I have turned down offers to hangout because of homework, projects or upcoming tests. I think that sometimes it’s important to focus on school work but you also need to be careful that you are not losing friends by doing so. I do better in school if I am happy or having a good time. If I focused too much on academics and didn’t have any close friends my grades may end up suffering because I am stressed or upset. Overall, I think that it is more important to have friends and do what you love, than to get straight A’s.— Anya Finlay, PhiladelphiaGrades are not an indicator of future success, they are an indicator of one’s ability to remember the curriculum. Some of the smartest people I know have the lowest grades and vice versa. Its already been shown that grades don’t dictate success, although Steve Jobs and Martin Luther King Jr. would be considered edge cases, it goes to show that grades don’t gauge true intelligence, they don’t measure the things that truly count such as ingenuity and creativity. As shown in the linked source from the American Educational Research Journal. Grades are shown to “account on average for only 2.4% of the variance in occupational performance.” Pursuing straight A’s can be a great method to keep yourself motivated in school, however all too often it becomes a measure of self worth, and with this becomes a fundamentally harmful practice.— Lucian Robustelli, Bryant, Ark.__________Our most popular Picture Prompt this week was “Online Video Games.” We asked students to study the picture above and reflect on how closely it resembled their own experiences gaming online.The majority of commenters agreed that the online gaming community could be toxic. They’ve encountered everything from annoying trolls and virtual harassment to death threats. The real discussion, though, was about who should be held responsible for protecting young people online — the players, their parents or the game creators?Players have a choiceThe internet is a place where people can say many things without repercussions, in video games however, many of them that are geared towards younger children have systems put in place that scan what people can type or say in the chat, and violations could result in a ban from the playing environment.As a teenager, I play games where I expect to hear obscene language from time to time, and I was fully aware when I joined these certain gaming communities. Games with voice chat however, are a totally different ball game, where it is almost impossible to track who says what, which creates an environment that could be open to inappropriate topics or bullying. But it is entirely the choice of the player whether they can join that chat, and at that point, it should be up to the parent to decide whether they are okay with their child participating in a voice chat environment.As I grew up playing video games on the internet, I have experience my fair share of bullying and of course it feels terrible. But it is also a learning experience and a tool to build up thicker skin. But in the end, it is entirely the players choice whether they join these chats. If parents fully understand that if a child enters the adult chat, they could be exposed to toxic material, and they still let their children play, it is the parents fault, not the video games’— Timothy Culton, The Greene School, R.I.Video games are not as bad as people say they are, games like Fortnite, call of duty, and overwatch ETC. Video games give players a in game muting/avoid option so that you can don’t hear or run into that player again. A good example is if you are playing a game such as overwatch or call of duty, these games (mainly overwatch) always need voice communication and is almost a must but overwatch is one game for example that is full of toxic players. Blizzard has gone out of there way to stop these types of people by having there own banning system, player report system, muting and “avoid this player” feature. This helps players begin to slowly push away the people that are toxic and begins to let people have a healthy game.— Joseph Johnson, The Greene School, R.I.It’s up to the parentsAlthough I don’t play video games my 9 year old brother does and he loves to play games like Fortnite and Roblox. Sometime when I’m watching him play video games I hear or see obscene language and slurs. Even on games that I thought were kid friendly like Roblox. This worried me because I thought that my brother would start to pick up the obscene language spoken by players in the video games. After talking to my dad about it he thought it was best for us to always have someone in the room whenever he’s playing video games to make sure he doesn’t participate in the obscene language. In my opinion, I believe that video games are safe for children as long as you make sure you’re aware of anything that may be going on in the game. There are also plenty of parental controls available on most gaming devices to protect your child from hearing anything obscene.— Sophia Jourdan, Orlando, Fla.All games are rated and children should be playing games that are E, E 10+, and maybe even T games because they are designed for kids. Plus, most streaming services and games have the ability to mute chats and block players who are using the platform for obscenities. I think that if a child were to play a game with an active chat, it should be up to the parents to let them use the chat or not. Parents should also be held responsible for the types of games their children are playing. If they don’t want their child to be exposed to those words and actions, then they should not condone the use of the game or streaming service. In conclusion, I strongly believe that it is up to the parent’s discretion what kind of games and streaming services their children are exposed to, and it is their responsibility to know what could be said in the chat and what actions could be done in the game.— Kaitlyn Brown, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.I do play video games but only on weekends. My favorites are the Halo, Fallout and Call of duty series. Based on my experience I think online video games are safe for children depending on the game and how old the child is. I do not think people need to make gaming communities less toxic because a company has already tried and failed. Also because if you are younger than a thirteen you should probably not be playing the mature games like Call Of Duty because the servers will most likely be more toxic. I think that the child’s parents should make sure that they are not exposed to a game that is not too inappropriate for the child so then they will also most likely not be exposed to toxic online chats either.— Tyler, BHBL High School Game creators can do moreThe toxicity that occurs in video games is unacceptable. From racial slurs to homophobic insults there are many different ways that people ruin the gaming experience for others. Children are constantly restricted from playing certain games due to the words and actions of others. Video game creators must take more action in eliminating toxic behavior. Things can be taken out of hand very often. I believe cursing should not be restricted as you should be able to express your feelings however racial slurs, homophobic insults etc.. should be controlled video game creators have the power to monitor what is said and ban people from playing there game. So why have they not?Many games are working hard on stopping this but is there enough effort being put in. I believe that maybe in order to protect children they can make it so you get grouped with people similar to your age. When you sign up to play a game normally you must enter your age. So why can they not make it so children under a certain age cannot be grouped together with older children who normally tend to be more veered towards such ignorant behavior. I have noticed in some games that they have a system where if u are exhibiting reckless behavior you are grouped with people making the similar actions. Therefore, If other games began to use this system maybe they may be able to limit the amount of children being exposed to such vile behavior if they cannot eliminate it completely— Trenton S, The Greene School, R.I.… Attempts to moderate online activity have usually backfired. Auto chat filters, for instance, can be bypassed or are too sensitive allowing trolls to use them to their advantage, baiting people into saying words close to a banned word so that they removed and may receive tempory bans. Other forms of moderation resulted in people mass reporting Youtubers or streamers resulting in them getting a similar punishment. When it comes down to it the moderation that can be placed on online games is usually ineffective and doesn’t accomplish its goal. The best way to reduce toxicity is to just make a good game so that people will be happy with it and not take their frustrations out on other players— Antonio P., The Greene School, R.I.Advertisement