AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergOur guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.BAM AND TRIPLE CANOPY: ON RESENTMENT at BAM Rose Cinemas (through March 28). The theater collaborates with the magazine Triple Canopy for this brief but wide-ranging exploration of antipathy onscreen — and in particular, movies in which anger boils over into rebellion. The theme is explored through the lenses of domestic discord in Iran (“A Separation,” on Saturday), an allegorical boarding-school uprising (“If ….,” on Sunday), poverty and worker mistreatment in the Philippines (“Manila in the Claws of Light,” on Sunday), the Maze prison hunger strike in Northern Ireland (“Hunger,” on Monday), and race-based violence in a dystopian version of Britain (“Welcome II the Terrordome,” on Tuesday). 718-636-4100, bam.orgHARMONY KORINE at the Metrograph (March 22-31). Korine was only 22 when Larry Clark’s “Kids” (on Monday and Tuesday), for which he wrote the screenplay, became a cultural flash point because of its depiction of sex and H.I.V. among New York City teenagers. He was only 24 when Janet Maslin, writing in The New York Times, declared his feature directorial debut, “Gummo” (on Sunday and Monday), the worst film of 1997 (with two and a half months to spare). Whether Korine should be seen as a juvenile troll or a bold fringe artist has continued to be a subject of debate, with “Trash Humpers” (on Friday and Saturday), a VHS-shot provocation that chronicles the antics of a group of wrinkle-masked mischief makers, offering the best evidence for both positions. The delightful “Spring Breakers” (on Friday and Saturday) opened a path to mainstream appeal, a direction Korine heads further down with his new stoner comedy, “The Beach Bum,” starring Matthew McConaughey and opening on March 29. 212-660-0312, metrograph.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]MADE IN HARLEM: FILMS OF MADELINE ANDERSON at Shepard Hall, City College of New York (March 28, 6:30 p.m.). For women’s history month, the Maysles Cinema and the Documentary Forum, a center at City College, will present three short films by Anderson, who will participate in a Q. and A. after the screening. “Integration Report 1” (1960) examines the state of school integration in three cities; “A Tribute to Malcolm X” aired on TV two years after the civil rights leader’s assassination; and “I Am Somebody,” from 1970, documents a strike in 1969 by workers at a Charleston, S.C., hospital. 212-537-6843, maysles.orgWHAT THE FEST!? at IFC Center (through March 24). This newish festival highlights contemporary movies that have a focus on horror and other outré happenings. Emma Tammi’s “The Wind,” showing on Friday and scheduled to open on April 5, is not, as cinephiles have speculated, in any meaningful sense of a remake of Victor Sjostrom’s 1928 silent masterpiece “The Wind,” but a horror film that nevertheless — like that Lillian Gish classic — foregrounds a female protagonist (Caitlin Gerard) against an unforgiving landscape. There are also recent selections from the Sundance Film Festival: “Greener Grass” (on Friday) was received at that event as an off-kilter sendup of suburban living, while “Hail Satan?” (on Sunday) is a very funny documentary on the philosophy and political activity of the group that calls itself the Satanic Temple.212-924-7771, ifccenter.comAdvertisement