AdvertisementSupported byBy Maria RussoThong and Parra have explored shapes (“Round Is a Tortilla”) and colors (“Green Is a Chile Pepper”) with adorable bilingual flair, and this take on the numbers one to 10 is just as appealing. Each object is named in Spanish, with surrounding text in English (“six flavored aguas to quench our thirst”), while Parra’s folk-art illustrations give visual clues to scenes from Latino life. Each friendly page beckons — to find stuff to count, or just to imagine lying on the beach under one of the five palapas.32 pp. Chronicle. $16.99. (Ages 3 to 5)A protective tabby named Muffin, a shop called Little Bear Bakery, a nighttime intruder. Is it a giant mouse? Or … a baby bear, helping herself to the goodies? Muffin is on the case. Sarcone-Roach (“The Bear Ate Your Sandwich”) draws her audience in with I’m-the-boss cat humor and expressive mixed-media art in shades of blue and orange, perfectly capturing moods ranging from a terrified kitty (“I was smooshed, like a muffin between the couch cushions”) to a satisfying bear hug. This delightful caper calls out for multiple readings.32 pp. Knopf. $17.99. (Ages 4 to 8)Admit it, that annual wish you make before blowing out the candles is a huge deal. This antic step-by-step guide at first plays it for laughs, pulling in dinosaurs, rhinos, penguins and many more creatures to sow amusing chaos. Dogs howl the birthday song off-key, and puffer fish are warned not to take a big breath. But the always vibrant Lichtenheld and Ferry turn sweetly serious for the moment we’ve been waiting for, with a gentle reminder: “Don’t forget that wish ends in ‘shhhhhh.’”40 pp. Putnam. $17.99. (Ages 4 to 8)This latest from Ruzzier (the Fox & Chick books) has just one or two words per page. But with lovely art that turns effortlessly surreal, that’s all it takes to tell a clever, comical story of a truly mutual relationship. A boy and his dog, whose coat is the same shade of yellow as the boy’s hair, practice canine training commands like “Sit” and “Jump” that soon morph into wondrous feats like “Cook.” Before you know it, the devoted pair are off on an outer-space adventure.40 pp. Atheneum. $15.99. (Ages 4 to 8)In this exquisite story of generosity from the beloved McKissack, who died in 2017, a little boy named James Otis and his mama have fallen on hard times after his father’s death. But they keep their spirits up, focusing on a request by their minister to add to a “love box” for a family that lost everything in a fire. Harrison has created soft yet dazzling illustrations for this tribute to faith, hope and the African-American community.32 pp. Schwartz & Wade. $17.99. (Ages 4 to 8)All apartment buildings contain tantalizing mysteries, and the red-haired girl who narrates this zany treat tells what’s behind each door in hers: a tiger, a vampire, a family that “celebrates someone’s birthday at least once a week.” Tsarfati (“An After Bedtime Story”) balances visual extravagance with sneaky insight into how kids think of home.40 pp. Abrams. $16.99. (Ages 4 to 8)The sea creatures who populate Tsurumi’s underwater idyll live harmoniously, yet each does its own thing, including Crab, who bakes cakes. But when someone dumps trash into their home, the psychedelic colors darken. What to do? The eco-friendly lesson goes down easy as “everybody comes together,” pitching in to haul the trash away, with another cake from Crab waiting at the end.40 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $17.99. (Ages 4 to 8) Like all Tan’s genre-defying books, this one vibrates with profound questions about how we choose to live and how we treat one another. A gray-suited cicada is an office drone, insulted and underpaid by the humans; he lives in an office wall space. After 17 years, he’s shown the door. Despondent, he seems about to jump from the roof, but instead sheds the suit and becomes dozens of bright red insects, flying away to freedom.32 pp. Arthur A. Levine/Scholastic. $19.99. (Ages 12 and up)Maria Russo is the children’s books editor of the Book Review.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement