AdvertisementSupported byChildren’s BooksBy Maria RussoA PARADE OF ELEPHANTS Written and illustrated by Kevin HenkesIt must be something about their steady, gentle hugeness: Elephants are especially beloved by the smallest children. The versatile, ever-perceptive Henkes has created a beguiling book of pastel-colored pachyderms, outlined in thick, pleasingly rough black lines. They look lively, yet extremely squeezable, as they march across the pages. He also sneaks in several toddler-ready concepts. The happy creatures demonstrate counting, a few apropos opposites like “over” and “under,” a dash of wondrous nighttime magic in the form of a shower of stars, and then — as always, parents will bless his name — the joy of settling down serenely to sleep after a full day.40 pp. Greenwillow. $18.99. Ages 2 to 5.THE VISITOR Written and illustrated by Antje Damm. Translated by Sally-Ann Spencer.A shut-in, neatnik woman named Elise lives alone and shuns company, until “something unbelievable” happens — a paper plane flies in her window, followed by a boy knocking at her door. Warm connection ensues. What makes it striking is Damm’s nifty, expressive art, photographs of dioramas and cutout painted figures. Dressed in red and yellow, the boy, Emil, brings color to Elise’s gray world. She makes her own paper plane, and the dazzling last page needs no words: We see inside her now colorful home, but she’s not there.32 pp. Gecko. $17.99. Ages 3 to 5.A VERY LATE STORY Written and illustrated by Marianna CoppoMeta picture books, in which characters know (or find out) they’re in a book, can be overbearing, but this one brings a light, clever touch to the conceit. Five small, silly, delicately drawn animals wander across blank pages, unsure why they’re there. Soon they realize they must wait for the story to arrive — how irritating. As they wait, a tree grows, adding new characters and new delights to the sea of white. By the time a stork brings the story, they realize they’ve got their own already, creating a head-spinning yet easygoing lesson in finding your own voice, and your own fun.48 pp. Flying Eye. $17.95. Ages 3 to 7.NIGHT JOB By Karen Hesse. Illustrated by G. Brian Karas.The premise is simple — a boy recounts how he goes with Dad on Friday nights to his job cleaning a school — but Hesse, a Newbery Medal winner, and Karas create an atmosphere of hushed fascination as we follow the pair through the long night. They leave home on a motorcycle; Dad opens the school door with a ring of keys “as big as the rising moon.” Karas’s dusky paneled art gives a feel of enchantment and adventure as the boy sweeps floors, shoots hoops, reads and falls asleep while Dad finishes working. He’s added an extraordinary dignity and tenderness to this picture of working-parent reality and a loving, physically close father-son bond.32 pp. Candlewick. $16.99. Ages 4 to 8.GROW UP, DAVID! Written and illustrated by David ShannonWith its likably mischievous hero who can’t slow down, Shannon’s Caldecott Honor-winning “No, David!” is 20 years old. This welcome fifth David book is a portrait of our hero as a pesky younger brother, his M.O. captured as always in Shannon’s wavery, high-energy art. A fresh sibling complaint is on every spread (“Thanks a lot, David!,” “Give it back, David!”), accompanied by a colorful little-kid’s-eye view of the damage done. The final rapprochement is surprisingly moving: Brothers are in it for the long haul, and even whirlwind David will, little by little, grow up.32 pp. Blue Sky Press. $17.99. Ages 3 to 7.THE PATCHWORK BIKE By Maxine Beneba Clarke. Illustrated by Van Thanh Rudd.The children in this exuberant book from an Australian writer and artist live in a “mud for walls” house on the edge of the “no-go desert,” and they’ve made an excellent bike out of random parts. Clarke’s poetically compressed language hurtles joyfully along, while Rudd’s illustrations, made on cardboard boxes with spirited swaths of paint, burst with irrepressible life. Dreaming and building, we see, go hand in hand no matter where you live.40 pp. Candlewick. $15.99. Ages 4 to 8.P IS FOR PTERODACTYL: THE WORST ALPHABET BOOK EVER By Raj Haldar and Chris Carpenter. Illustrated by Maria Beddia.You can curse the English language for its insane spelling rules (or lack thereof), or you can delight in it, as this raucous trip through the odd corners of our alphabet does. Haldar — better known as the rapper Lushlife — and Carpenter celebrate “Heir” and “Tsunami,” adding brainteasers like “R is not for ‘Are’” for good measure. Beddia’s art adds a cartoony touch.40 pp. Sourcebooks. $17.99. Ages 7 to 12.MY BEIJING: FOUR STORIES OF EVERYDAY WONDER Written and illustrated by Nie Jun. Translated by Edward Gauvin.This delectable graphic story collection gives a taste of the everyday life of kids in China, kicked up with a clever time-travel element. A girl named Yu’er, who has a disability that limits her walking, and the grandfather who cares for her live simply, but their days are filled with both resourcefulness and amazement. The stories move gracefully between reality and fantasy, a bit like Miyazaki movies, but sweeter.128 pp. Graphic Universe. $17.99. Ages 7 to 12.Maria Russo is the children’s books editor of the Book Review.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement