AdvertisementSupported byAfrican-American lives in the city, a fictional 1970s rock band, an exhibition of tiny books, a memoir of solitary confinement and more.We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:On our cover this week, two new books about African-American lives in the city — two cities, in particular: Chicago and Cleveland. Alex Kotlowitz’s “An American Summer: Love and Death in Chicago” and Kyle Swenson’s “Good Kids, Bad City: A Story of Race and Wrongful Conviction in America” are also both, broadly speaking, about decaying infrastructure, political corruption, segregation, racism, gun violence and incompetence in the criminal justice system.Kotlowitz is also on the podcast this week, discussing “An American Summer,” and John Lanchester visits to talk about his new dystopian novel, “The Wall.”Have our politics become impossible to satirize in the age of Trump? Ben Greenman explores.“Daisy Jones & The Six,” a novel about a fictional 1970s rock band, is presented almost entirely as an oral history, and it reads like the transcript of a particularly juicy episode of VH1’s “Behind the Music.”The crime writer Donna Leon answers our By the Book questions.The novelist and Iraq war veteran Kevin Powers makes a case for the “unmatched moral clarity” of “Slaughterhouse-Five” by Kurt Vonnegut, 50 years on.Dwight Garner reviews “Solitary,” Albert Woodfox’s harrowing memoir about the more than 40 years he spent in solitary confinement for a crime he didn’t commit. “If the ending of this book does not leave you with tears pooling down in your clavicles,” Garner writes, “you are a stronger person than I am.”Parul Sehgal writes about “Survival Math,” Mitchell S. Jackson’s memoir about growing up black in Portland, Ore., a story he interweaves with the stories of his friends and relatives.Jennifer Szalai reviews David Wallace-Wells’s “The Uninhabitable Earth,” which expands on his viral article in New York magazine about the “climate chaos” that will increasingly take over our lives.We dived into the archives to find some of our most scathing reviews of classic books. We called “Sister Carrie” a book “one can get along very well without reading,” dismissed “Lolita” as “dull, dull, dull” and had nothing nice to say about “Howards End.” (What can we say? We don’t always get it right.) A new exhibit of miniature books is on display at the Grolier Club in New York City. One of them is so small that it appears as an imperceptible black speck. Sarah Lyall reports.Silvana Paternostro talks about “Solitude & Company,” her oral history of the Nobel Prize winner’s life before and after he found fame. And Netflix announced that it had acquired the rights to develop “One Hundred Years of Solitude” into a series. It will be the first time the novel is adapted for the screen.Advertisement