AdvertisementSupported byBy Tacey RychterDid you know The New York Times publishes close to 30 film reviews each week?Every month, we’ll curate the most relevant and interesting reviews specifically for our Australian audience, based on the local release dates. You can always read more movie reviews from The New York Times here.[Prefer not to go out? Check out our Australian Netflix guide for June instead.]Starring: Elizabeth Debicki, Simon Baker, Richard Roxburgh, Rachael Blake, Samson CoulterDirected by: Simon BakerWhat is it? A coming-of-age tale of budding masculinity set in 1970s West Australia, complete with glistening bodies, churning surf and glasses of milk with every meal.You’ll like it if you liked: The oceanic bliss of “Endless Summer” or the dorky teenage Australian-isms in “Puberty Blues.”Critic’s take: “Perhaps out of loyalty to his source material, Mr. Baker at times overstates the obvious,” our critic Manohla Dargis said. “His efforts to elevate the quotidian — the exultation of the ordinary that emerges as the story’s moral — can feel heavy-handed.”Australian release date: May 3 (Due to a June 1 release date in the United States, the review was not published in time for last month’s wrap.)Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.Starring: Alden Ehrenreich, Woody Harrelson, Emilia Clarke, Donald Glover, Joonas SuotamoDirected by: Ron HowardWhat is it? The Han Solo back story you never asked for.You’ll like it if you liked: Any of the other Star Wars films, or if you felt Han Solo’s Wikipedia page didn’t give enough answers.Critic’s take: “One thing that remains curiously unexplored is how Han became the wary, cynical guy Princess Leia (and everyone else) fell for back in the Carter administration.”Australian release date: May 24Read the full review by A. O. Scott.Starring: Sandra Bullock, Cate Blanchett, Anne Hathaway, Mindy Kaling, Griffin DunneDirected by: Gary RossWhat is it? A female-flipped reboot of a reboot: Sandra Bullock leads a team of wisecracking crooks to loot the Met Gala. You’ll like it if you liked: 2001’s “Ocean’s Eleven,” directed by Steven Soderbergh, or other recent female-driven reboots of action flicks, like 2016’s “Ghostbusters.”Critic’s take: “At some point between the first and second hours, though, you may find yourself wishing that Mr. Soderbergh — a producer here — had also directed ‘Ocean’s 8.’ Its cast aside, the movie sounds and narratively unwinds like the previous installments, but without the same easy snap or visual allure.”Australian release date: June 7Read the full review by Manohla Dargis. Starring: Elizabeth Olsen, Jason Sudeikis, Ed Harris, Bruce Greenwood, Amanda BrugelDirected by: Mark RasoWhat is it? An estranged father and son travel across the country to develop old Kodachrome film rolls before the world’s last processing facility in Kansas closes forever.You’ll like it if you liked: The old days of analog film.Critic’s take: “If this earnest and forgettable road movie represents a meaningful tribute to taking pictures, we ought to go back to cave drawing.”Bonus fact! The movie is based on an article that A. G. Sulzberger, the current publisher of The New York Times, wrote in 2010 when he was a reporter in Kansas.Australian release date: June 7Read the full review by Ben Kenigsberg. Starring: Rachel McAdams, Rachel Weisz, Alessandro Nivola, Anton Lesser, Cara Horgan Directed by: Sebastián LelioWhat is it? An exiled woman returns to her Orthodox Jewish community after the death of her father and rekindles a forbidden romance.You’ll like it if you liked: “A Fantastic Woman” or “Gloria,” two other female-driven films by Mr. Lelio.Critic’s take: “In ‘Disobedience,’ the emotions are reserved, the palette muted, the rooms claustrophobic, the storytelling restrained. It’s almost a surprise that Ronit (Rachel Weisz), a successful art photographer living in New York, can breathe, given how drained of oxygen this frustrating movie is.”Australia release date: June 14Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.Starring: Logan Marshall-Green, Richard Anastasios, Rosco Campbell, Richard Cawthorne, Linda CropperDirected by: Leigh WhannellWhat is it? Widowed and disabled after an assault, a man is implanted with a chip that lets him walk and fight baddies.You’ll like it if you liked: “RoboCop” or “Ex Machina” — and don’t mind a dumber version of either.Critic’s take: “The movie manages to be pretty funny; and the grisliness of the action, while in a sense entirely deplorable, adds to the kicks. As do the plot twists, which are satisfying in a — you guessed it — dumb way.”Australian release date: June 14Read the full review by Glenn Kenny.Starring: Shailene Woodley, Sam Claflin, Grace Palmer, Jeffrey Thomas, Elizabeth HawthorneDirected by: Baltasar Kormákur What is it? A young couple’s budding nautical romance in the South Pacific coincides with a hurricane.You’ll like it if you liked:  “Red Sky in Mourning,” the memoir the film is based on.Critic’s take: “The film is a notch below average. It lacks the austere grandeur of ‘All Is Lost,’ the spiritual hoo-ha and digital gee-whizzery of ‘Life of Pi’ and the technological bravura of ‘Gravity,’ which it most resembles in terms of plot and mood.”Australian release date: June 28Read the full review by A. O. Scott. Follow Tacey Rychter on Twitter: @taceyrychter.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing. Or better yet, just subscribe!Advertisement