AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Natalie ProulxOn Jan. 3, the six-part documentary “Surviving R. Kelly” had its premiere on Lifetime, detailing decades of accusations of sexual misconduct and abuse against the R&B singer. Since the series aired, multiple news stories have followed: investigators are looking into the accusations; Lady Gaga and Chance the Rapper have apologized for collaborating with Mr. Kelly; and demonstrators are boycotting his music.Have you seen the documentary or read or heard any of the commentary on it? Have you been aware of the allegations against him? Have you ever been an R. Kelly fan? How has this news affected your feelings about him or his work?In “‘Surviving R. Kelly’ Documentary on Lifetime Details Sex Abuse Accusations,” Jacey Fortin writes about the series and the social upheaval that has followed it:The documentary has become the subject of widespread attention and fierce debate on social media, with many expressing gratitude to the women who continue to tell their stories.“I wish that he would experience a kind of social death, and that people who still vociferously declare him innocent — or their favorite artist, or worthy of having his work separated from who he is — that they are denied that,” said dream hampton, an executive producer of the documentary.The six parts of the series were scheduled over three days of broadcast, from Thursday through Saturday. The third and fourth episodes focused on Mr. Kelly’s 2008 child pornography trial and the sex tape at its center. The fifth and sixth episodes examine more recent allegations and follow parents who were trying to free their daughters from Mr. Kelly’s influence, Ms. hampton said.While some fans of Mr. Kelly still defend him, many critics say that he has escaped the consequences of his actions for far too long.“No one cared because we were black girls,” the writer Mikki Kendall said in the documentary.Ms. hampton agreed that race was an integral part of this story. She added that black boys and girls in the United States were often perceived as older than they are, and mentioned Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old boy who was shot and killed by a police officer in Cleveland in 2014.“We know black boys are perceived to be older than they are by police, and we absolutely do an equivalent thing to black girls,” Ms. hampton said in an interview Friday. “We perceive them to be more sexual at an early age. We perceive them to be older. And that is rooted — there is no other way to say it, and it’s not hyperbole to say — it’s absolutely rooted in this country’s history of slavery, which has gone on longer than it hasn’t.”Mr. Kelly was still featured as an artist on the RCA website on Saturday. The label did not immediately respond to a request for comment, and a representative for Sony Music, which oversees RCA Records, declined to comment. Mr. Kelly’s management also declined to comment.His team has previously said it would “vigorously resist this attempted public lynching of a black man who has made extraordinary contributions to our culture.” Mr. Kelly is not currently facing criminal charges.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What is your reaction to what you’ve read in this article?— We’ve asked before whether art can be separated from an artist. What do you think? Does the Kelly documentary or this article make you think any differently about that question? Why or why not?— What responsibility does the music industry have for holding Mr. Kelly and others accountable? Should streaming services, like Spotify, remove his music from their playlists? Should artists who have collaborated with or supported him in the past condemn him, as Lady Gaga, Chance the Rapper and John Legend have done? Should companies stop producing his music? What effects might these actions have on artists and are they deserved?— What responsibility do individuals have? Should people stop listening to his music? Will you stop listening to his music? Why or why not?— In a related Opinion piece, Salamishah Tillet and Scheherazade Tillet write:For 20 years, black girls and women accused the R&B singer Robert Kelly of sexually assaulting minors. Yet he still enjoyed enormous success.So his spectacular fall — due in large part to the work of Dream Hampton, an executive producer of the documentary — marks a seismic cultural shift. Over the past week, we’ve had conversations with many people who had never believed black girls’ allegations against him until they saw the documentary.What do you think of this statement? Have you noticed that the experiences of black women and girls have been ignored in the #MeToo movement? Do you think this is a watershed moment for women of color? Why or why not?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Advertisement