AdvertisementSupported byBy the BookThe author, most recently, of the memoir “Shout” doesn’t shun any genres: “That’s like avoiding colors or parts of the flavor spectrum. I want all kinds of stories on my plate.”What books are on your nightstand?In English I have “Black Leopard, Red Wolf,” by Marlon James, “White Rage: The Unspoken Truth of Our Racial Divide,” by Carol Anderson, and “Here to Stay,” by Sara Farizan. I generally read several books at a time, and I try to make sure that one of them is always in Danish, my second language. My current Danish book is “Mit Lykkelige Land,” by Grevinde Alexandra and Rikke Hyldgaard, a delightful examination of what makes Denmark such a terrific place to live.What’s the last great book you read?“Hunger: A Memoir of (My) Body,” by Roxane Gay. If you haven’t read it yet, start right now. (Come back to this Q. and A. when you’re done, please.) Gay’s experience of trauma, of shame, of being a fat (her preferred word), black woman in America, of navigating spaces that reject her, of weaving a life from the shreds of childhood left after being gang-raped at age 12, of being both trapped by and sheltered within her body — this book contains multitudes. I will be rereading it for a very long time.What book should everybody read before the age of 21?“All American Boys,” by Jason Reynolds and Brendan Kiely. The only way we’ll eliminate the racial inequities and injustice in America is if we give the next generation a shared vocabulary and set of experiences for their conversations. “All American Boys” is a great place to start.What book should nobody read until the age of 40?“The Scarlet Letter,” by Nathaniel Hawthorne. Why, oh why, do we force that book on unsuspecting high school students? ::pounds forehead on desk:: I love the book — now — but few teenagers will read it with joy when there are so many great (and relevant!) books to choose from in this golden age of young adult literature. “The Scarlet Letter” is best appreciated by folks of a certain age.Also “Roger Chillingworth” is a brilliant name for an antagonist in a book about adultery. Kudos on that one, Nate.What’s your favorite book no one else has heard of?“Runes: The Icelandic Book of Futhark,” by Teresa Drofn Freysdottir Njardvik. It’s an academic study of three runic systems that explores deep currents of symbology and the weight that words carry in prose and poetry. Absolutely inspirational.Which writers — novelists, playwrights, critics, journalists, poets — working today do you admire most? The poets Terrance Hayes, Jorie Graham and Molly Peacock have lit me up the last few years. My list of novelists is ridiculously long, but here are the writers I’ll preorder in hardcover without knowing anything about the book: N. K. Jemisin, David Mitchell, Louise Erdrich, Deborah Harkness, Jacqueline Woodson, Zadie Smith, Louise Penny, Colson Whitehead, Hilary Mantel, Jason Reynolds, Neil Gaiman, Kelly Link and Margaret Atwood. One of the things I love most about Twitter is the ability to find and follow the work of journalists I respect. At the top of that list are Natasha Bertrand at The Atlantic, Nina Burleigh at Newsweek and Sarah Kendzior, the author of “Flyover Country,” whose take on American politics and culture is unparalleled.Whose opinion on books do you most trust? My editors have never steered me wrong. I have a small circle of author buddies, including Deborah Heiligman and Linda Sue Park, whose recommendations I always heed. Last but not least, my children. They usually surprise me with their new favorites and they have great taste.When do you read? Whenever I can! More than half of what I read are audiobooks, borrowed from my library on the Libby app. I read them while I’m exercising, running errands and folding laundry. I prefer paper-based books when I’m reading with my eyes, but if I’m on the road, I mostly read on my iPad. The exception is early and late in a flight when electronic devices must be stored. I always have a paperback handy for those moments.What moves you most in a work of literature?Characters who come to realize their flaws and allow themselves to be vulnerable despite the potential danger that creates. I like bravery on a large scale, like Lyra Belacqua battling evil in Philip Pullman’s “His Dark Materials” trilogy, but small acts of bravery, like those of Xiomara in Elizabeth Acevedo’s “The Poet X,” take my breath away.Which genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid? Avoid? People avoid genres? That’s like avoiding colors or parts of the flavor spectrum. I want all kinds of stories on my plate, served with butter, spices and warm cream.How do you organize your books?We recently moved to a drafty old house with lots of bookcases, so I’ve been gleefully arranging my books into the rooms where they seem most at home. They are mostly organized by subject or genre: American history, poultry management, Y.A. novels, not-Y.A. novels, mysteries, poetry, biography, writing, etc. Within each group, I sort alphabetically. I’m trying to share more of my books with my community and keep only those books that I know I’ll reread. The problem is that this practice has opened up sad, empty spaces in my bookcases that I feel compelled to fill. Actually, that’s not really a problem at all, is it?What book might people be surprised to find on your shelves?I love collecting dictionaries when I travel. My favorite one has an imposing title: “Chambers Scots Dictionary: serving as a glossary for Ramsay, Fergusson, Burns, Scott, Galt, minor poets, Kailyard novelists, and a host of other writers of the Scottish tongue,” compiled by Alexander Warrack. It’s an utter delight to read. They’d also be surprised by the amount of nonfiction I read, other than dictionaries.Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine? Your favorite antihero or villain?My favorite hero is a tossup between Hermione Granger and Jo March. They’d make one hell of a dynamic duo. Charles Talent Manx of Joe Hill’s “NOS4A2” can’t be classified as a “favorite,” but he is the villain who haunts my nightmares.What kind of reader were you as a child? Which childhood books and authors stick with you most?I was a struggling reader, at first. Lots of extra help at home and in school turned me into an omnivorous reader by fourth grade. The books that bring back powerful memories are “The Borrowers” books, by Mary Norton, “Heidi,” by Johanna Spyri, “Little Women,” by Louisa May Alcott, and “Harriet the Spy,” by Louise Fitzhugh. I read “Dracula,” by Bram Stoker, in sixth grade. It freaked me out so much I threw it under my bed, and then became slightly hysterical, convinced that the book was emitting an eerie green light and that the vampire was going to come through the pages and bite me. My imagination was a bit of a burden for my mother.If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?“Fault Lines in the Constitution: The Framers, Their Fights and the Flaws that Affect Us Today,” by Cynthia and Sanford Levinson. Written for readers ages 10 and up, it’s an excellent introduction to the strengths and weaknesses of our founding document and is especially enlightening for those who don’t yet understand how our government is supposed to work.You’re organizing a literary dinner party. Which three writers, dead or alive, do you invite?Louise Erdrich stands at the top of my list. Her use of language, her dexterity with multiple viewpoints and the unending heartbeat that connects her stories make her the Author I’d Most Love to Learn From. Plus, she owns an incredible bookstore, Birchbark Books and Native Arts, in Minneapolis. I’d invite Phillis Wheatley, the 18th-century poet, because I’d love to hear her interpretation of the American Revolution and her writing process. Last, but not least, is Emily Dickinson. I hope she’ll talk about the border between humor and sorrow, and the art of precision.I’m not much of a cook, so our dinner party will have to take place in a restaurant. It would be lovely if we could sit next to the table where Louisa May Alcott is sitting because “Little Women” was a huge influence on my girlhood and our fathers had a lot in common. I hope she’s dining with Langston Hughes, whose poem “Dreams” hung on the wall of my bedroom when I was growing up. (I bet he’ll be as thrilled with the work of the I, Too Arts Collective as I am.) If we’re lucky, James Joyce will join us for cheese, nuts and a bottle of port at the end of the meal. His playfulness with language gave me the confidence to innovate boldly in my own books. By the time the port is decanted, our merry group of scribblers will have pushed our tables together. We’ll conversate until dawn.Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel as if you were supposed to like, and didn’t? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?I give a book three chapters to grab me. If it doesn’t, I return it to the library or pass it on to someone else. Not all books are going to touch all readers, that’s a simple fact of the reading life. However, sometimes I’ll stick with a book I don’t love because it can help me learn a bit about craft. The first step is to figure out why the book isn’t reaching my heart. Are the characters flat, is the setting vague, is the dialogue pointless? If the lack of tension bugs me, I’ll ponder what choices I would have made differently. The more I write, the more I realize how little I know about writing, so I seize every opportunity to learn.Whom would you want to write your life story?Someone born 50 years from now. I don’t want to be alive when that book is written. Biography works best when enough time has passed that the subject’s life and work can be understood within the broader context of the culture in which he or she lived.What do you plan to read next? Once I finish my bedside pile? “The Gilded Wolves,” by Roshani Chokshi. I’m anxiously awaiting July 4, when Clementine Ford’s new book, “Boys Will Be Boys,” will be released in the United States. It examines toxic masculinity and misogyny and sounds like it was written in fire.An expanded version of this interview is available at nytimes.com/books.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement