AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe Cohn“Broad City” returns for its fifth and final season on Comedy Central. And the Amy Schumer vehicle “I Feel Pretty” runs on Showtime.BROAD CITY 10 p.m. on Comedy Central. It began with a dispute over some spare change. When the “Broad City” web series started nearly a decade ago as a no-budget sendup of 20-something life in New York City, it did so with an episode in which the characters played by Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer — now household comedy names — argue over whether asking a beggar to make change for a $10 bill is “disrespectful.” The show comes to an end with its fifth and final season, which starts on Thursday. The fourth season featured psychedelic mushrooms, a racy leotard and bedbugs; the new one involves Abbi making a new friend (despite Ilana’s disapproval) and embarking on a new kind of relationship. “We knew what the end would be,” Jacobson recently told The New York Times. “I’m not going to tell you it. But we want you to leave the characters and feel O.K.”I AM LEGEND (2007) 5:55 p.m. on AMC. A year after surviving financial turmoil in the San Francisco-set drama “The Pursuit of Happyness,” Will Smith crossed coasts to survive a different kind of ruin in this sci-fi movie, set in a postapocalyptic New York. Smith plays an Army virologist in a deserted Manhattan — well, deserted save for the hairless cannibals that come out at night (they’re essentially zombies). Directed by Francis Lawrence, the film “mixes dread and suspense with contemplative, almost pastoral moods,” A. O. Scott wrote in his review for The Times. He called the movie’s digitally desolate New York “downright uncanny.”I FEEL PRETTY (2017) 8 p.m. on Showtime. Amy Schumer plays a cosmetics firm drudge with Fifth Avenue aspirations and low self-esteem in this New York comedy. Her life is changed by a head injury at a SoulCycle class that causes her to start seeing herself as exquisitely beautiful. Her self-confidence blossoms and her career and love life follow suit. Michelle Williams also plays, memorably and squeakily, a cosmetics titan. “Amy Schumer puts out so much energy in ‘I Feel Pretty’ that it’s hard not to feel charged up, too,” Manohla Dargis wrote in her review for The Times, though she also called the movie itself “seriously suboptimal.”CONVERSATIONS WITH A KILLER: THE TED BUNDY TAPES Stream on Netflix. When the serial killer Ted Bundy was executed in January 1989 at the Florida State Prison, people gathered outside the compound began to cheer. It was the end of a long process that challenged America’s notion of what a killer looks like — when the charismatic and handsome Bundy was first arrested, many felt that there must have been a mistake. He has since become one of the country’s more notorious killers. This four-part documentary series revisits the case through interviews, archival footage and a chilling primary source: tapes of Bundy being interviewed on death row.Advertisement