AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Tim KreiderDUPED Double Lives, False Identities, and the Con Man I Almost Married By Abby Ellin 261 pp. PublicAffairs. $27.I never read books like “Duped: Double Lives, False Identities, and the Con Man I Almost Married”: high-concept books with one-word titles, subtitles that tell you everything you need to know about them and a single, Gladwellian image on the cover. (Here, it’s a suitor’s hand extending a rose.) Books written in magazine prose — conversational, breezy, without a distractingly idiosyncratic line, paragraphs chopped up short for easy digestion, the references current and pop-cultural. They’re books you read, if you read them, for content, not artistry.Nevertheless, I have recommended this one to friends who’ve loved someone they turned out not to know. As you already know from her subtitle, Abby Ellin, a regular contributor to The Times, was engaged to a man she nicknames “The Commander,” who proved to have fabricated major aspects of his life. He didn’t con her out of hundreds of thousands of dollars, as has happened to some people; he just got her to fall in love with him, move to another city and agree to marry him on the basis of lies.About the best thing you can do with certain experiences is use them as material, and I admire Ellin’s fortitude in telling a story that risks making her look like a fool. She does try to pre-empt unsympathetic reader reactions, but also pulls off the tricky balancing act of avoiding either self-justification or self-castigation.After recounting her own story, she goes on to explore every imaginable aspect of dishonesty and dual identity: deception in the animal kingdom, the lying of children, polygraphs and methods of divining truthfulness in antiquity, Winnicott and Jung, the modal theory of the brain, case histories of psychopaths, con artists, double agents, undercover cops, drug dealers, adulterers and wanted criminals living underground.Whether this exhaustive approach is an effort to understand what happened to her through breadth rather than depth or just an excuse to pad what began as a magazine article to book length, it threatens to diffuse the book’s focus to the point of becoming an Encyclopedia of Lies. It also risks conflating phenomena that are as superficially similar but ultimately unrelated as dolphins and sharks; the underlying psychology of fugitive ecoteurs is very different from that of frauds like her ex-fiancé.More than half the book is devoted to the motivations of people who engage in elaborate deceptions — the “unavoidable question of why The Commander fabricated so much of his existence.” Which seems like a considerably less interesting and pertinent question than: Why did she believe him? The pathology of liars like Ellin’s ex is of clinical interest; the psychology that made her susceptible to his lies is universal (and of urgent topical relevance).The Commander’s lies, described flatly, sound like stories an 11-year-old would make up: He was a Navy SEAL, always going on “secret missions”; he was friends with Barack Obama; he “judo chops” people. So how did an intelligent person trained as a journalist, a self-described congenital skeptic, fall for them? (Funny that the idiom “to fall for” applies to both love and scams.)Ellin acknowledges a deep complicity, a deliberate blindness, on the part of the deceived. We believe what’s convenient, and Ellin wanted to be in love, plus The Commander always sprang for first-class tickets and five-star restaurants. In relating a case of “gender fraud,” in which a woman was shocked to discover that her boyfriend was actually a woman, Ellin mentions in passing that the victim “had always worn a blindfold when they were together.” Ellin doesn’t go in much for metaphors, but this one seems ready-made.Cons and deceptions take advantage of the target’s confidence in her own intelligence and discernment; to doubt the con is to doubt yourself. Learning that you’ve been lied to by someone you loved undermines your trust not only in that person but in yourself, in your judgment and perception of reality. “Duped” is testament to the deep and enduring damage deception can inflict. What people don’t know hurts them. Reading “Duped” gave me occasion to second-guess even gentler deceptions; it may actually have made me a (slightly) better person. Which is more than I can say for many a better book.Tim Kreider is the author, most recently, of “I Wrote This Book Because I Love You,” a collection of essays.Advertisement