AdvertisementSupported byPage to ScreenOf the various book-to-film adaptations, these eight titles — including “If Beale Street Could Talk,” “The Sisters Brothers” and “The Hate U Give” — are worth reading before you watch. By Concepción de LeónOf the year’s non-franchise, non-superhero films, some of the most popular have been adapted from books, including “A Wrinkle in Time,” “Crazy Rich Asians” and the Netflix teenage romance “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before.” One of the latest, “Bel Canto,” based on Ann Patchett’s novel and starring Julianne Moore and Ken Watanabe, was released on Sept. 14. Books, replete with emotional depth and rich character development, are ripe for onscreen interpretation, even if, for some readers, the end result isn’t always as rich in the visual telling. This fall brings a new batch of adaptations for readers to anticipate. Here are eight titles worth reading before you watch.THE SISTERS BROTHERSSet in Oregon and California in 1851, this darkly comic Western novel from 2011 is about two brothers, Charlie and Eli Sisters, who are hired to murder a man and steal his gold-hunting “formula,” a chemical solution that illuminates the metal. The climax of “The Sisters Brothers,” said our reviewer, is “both striking and strange,” and in a review of another one of Mr. DeWitt’s books, Daniel Handler (better known as Lemony Snicket) said the novel “has a lovely fragility and an emotional core that rise above its clever premise and style.”The film version stars John C. Reilly, Joaquin Phoenix, Jake Gyllenhaal and Riz Ahmed; it introduces American audiences to the French auteur Jacques Audiard. In an article in The Times in August, Mr. Audiard said, “I don’t have a particular affinity for the Westerns that are deemed classics — a world of brutal men, with big ideals that don’t prevent them from killing anything that moves: Indians, bison, neighbors,” but he was attracted to the tenderness of the brothers’ relationship.Release date: Sept. 21.THE HATE U GIVEThis 2017 young adult novel has been No. 1 on The New York Times Best Sellers list for 79 weeks and counting. It’s about a 16-year-old girl named Starr Carter who is galvanized by her childhood friend’s death at the hands of a police officer. Black Lives Matter is a backdrop, to be sure — the equivalent movement in the book is called “Just Us for Justice” — but our reviewer wrote that “it’s also a page turner brimming with pop culture references and humor,” adding that “there’s plenty for readers of all ages to enjoy.”It is fitting that Amandla Stenberg will play Starr in the film adaptation; many of the biographical details of her life mirror that of the character she plays. She learned to code-switch by toggling between the lower-income black neighborhood where she lived and her primarily white private school, and Ms. Stenberg was also moved to be more vocal about issues of social justice after a black man’s death at the hands of a police officer. In a recent Times profile, she said these events “completely informed what I cared about and what I felt my point was as an artist.” There is already considerable buzz surrounding the movie, and the studio responded by giving it a limited release ahead of its wide distribution.Release date: Oct. 5 (limited release); Oct. 19 (wide release).TWEAK: Growing Up on MethamphetaminesBEAUTIFUL BOY: A Father’s Journey Through His Son’s AddictionThe upcoming film “Beautiful Boy” is a twofer, based on the books “Beautiful Boy” (2008), by David Sheff, and “Tweak” (2007), by his son Nic Sheff. The father-son pair published memoirs within a year of each other, chronicling both of their experiences living with Nic’s drug addiction, which started when he was in high school and lasted more than a decade. The books “share an affinity for catharsis,” according to our reviewer, though the younger Mr. Sheff’s memoir is “rougher, slangier,” wrote Janet Maslin in her review of the elder’s book, while a separate review noted that the father’s account “served as an adjunct form of therapy.” The film stars Steve Carell as the concerned parent and Timothée Chalamet — who received an Oscar nomination for his performance in “Call Me by Your Name” — as the freewheeling, drug addicted son. A preliminary reaction in The Times to the film’s trailer read, it “seems to radiate a rare emotional verisimilitude,” and others have called everything it shows us about drug addiction as “entirely authentic.”Release date: Oct. 12.WILDLIFEThis 1990 book, narrated by 16-year-old Joe Brinson and set in Montana, centers on how Joe and his mother cope after the family patriarch leaves to fight a forest fire after losing his job at a country club. “It’s as if he’s tired of playing life safe up the middle of the fairway. He wants to confront something that is out of control,” wrote our reviewer. In his absence, Joe’s mother begins an affair with a man named Warren Miller, who — as described by the teenage narrator — appears utterly repellent. The movie adaptation, starring Jake Gyllenhaal, Carey Mulligan and Ed Oxenbould as Joe, “seems like a compelling showcase for an always-impressive Ms. Mulligan” and an opportunity for its director, Paul Dano, “to bring depth to this work,” according to early press coverage. Release date: Oct. 19.THE ELEPHANT VANISHES“There are 17 charming, humorous and frequently puzzling short stories in ‘The Elephant Vanishes,’” wrote our reviewer of this 1993 book, all bearing “the author’s special imprint: a mixture of magical realism, feckless wandering and stylish writing, often ending at a blank wall.” One of these stories, “Barn Burning,” has been turned into “Burning,” a film by the director Lee Chang-dong of South Korea. The story is about a writer pulled into a bizarre relationship with a young woman whose boyfriend reveals himself to be an arsonist. The details of the movie are not perfectly aligned with the original story — Murakami’s narrator is married, for instance, while Mr. Lee’s star is not — but they share an unsettled quality. According to Manohla Dargis, the New York Times’s co-chief film critic, “Mr. Lee creates a seductive intimacy — pulling you close enough to think you’ve figured everyone out — that grows progressively ominous and dangerous.”Release date: Oct. 26.ALL THE TRUTH IS OUT: The Week Politics Went Tabloid “The Front Runner” is based on this 2014 book by the New York Times Magazine writer Matt Bai, who is also one of the screenwriters. In 1988, the Democratic presidential front-runner Gary Hart was embroiled in a sex scandal, and the book examines how the media’s coverage of it affected political reporting. Before then, candidates’ sexual exploits had been mostly off-limits, as long as they were discreet. At the heart of Mr. Bai’s book, according to one of our reviewers, is how to judge The Miami Herald, which received a tip about Mr. Hart’s affair with a young woman named Donna Rice. Reporters chased down the story, surrendering, as Mr. Bai wrote, “all at once to the idea that politics had become another form of celebrity-driven entertainment.” Mr. Hart withdrew from the race five days later, and his political career languished. Hugh Jackman stars as Gary Hart in the film.Release date: Nov. 7.IF BEALE STREET COULD TALKBaldwin’s thirteenth book is set in Harlem in the 1970s and told from the perspective of Tish, a 19-year-old woman whose childhood friend turned fiancé, a sculptor named Fonny, is unjustly arrested for rape. Tish is pregnant, and the book, from 1974, is about the ways in which their family must prove and “pay for proving” Fonny’s innocence. “The novel is quietly powerful,” wrote Joyce Carol Oates in her original review, “never straining or exaggerating for effect.” (Read the full review at your peril; it contains many spoilers.) The film was adapted by the Oscar-winning “Moonlight” director Barry Jenkins, and this new one appears to share that one’s expressionist style.Release date: Nov. 30.Concepción de León is the digital staff writer for the Books Desk. She covers book news, writes the weekly Newsbook column and contributes to the Travel section, suggesting books from around the world. She previously worked for Glamour magazine.  Advertisement