
          PAID FOR AND POSTED BY 
          DELL GAMING

@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto+Condensed');
Today, you probably wouldn’t recognize the world’s first computer game. Released in 1962 for  the PDP-1 computer — which weighed 1,200 pounds and cost around $120,000 — Spacewar! was a two-player game developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Far from the 4K monitors we game on today, Spacewar was played on a cathode-ray tube display. Because developers weren’t able to copyright software in the early ’60s, Spacewar was entirely open-source, meaning anyone could modify it. And because most of Spacewar’s early users were programmers, many of them did indeed modify it, eventually adding mines, more inertia and even an early form of virtual reality.While PC games were subsequently found to be protected by copyright, the industry has continued to foster a culture of innovation. A low technical barrier to entry has allowed developers to build the extraordinary computing, graphic and interactive technologies that regularly put PC gaming years ahead of its console counterparts. “The PC is the home of innovation,” says Mat Piscatella, a video game industry analyst at The NPD Group. “There are no limits to what a developer can create on the PC platform. Developers can experiment without being restricted by certification costs or other platform-holder restrictions.”The PC’s innovation story continues to evolve. There are nearly 570 million PC gamers in the world, according to Jon Peddie, the president of Jon Peddie Research. That number is likely to grow as new distribution technologies, emergent interactive gaming styles and low-price, high-end PCs like the new Dell Inspiron 15 7000 Gaming further democratize PC gaming. More casual gamers are joining the fold, and they’re doing so on new laptops that are affordable for holiday gifting and versatile enough to use for work and entertainment.Online distribution platforms have been a boon for game developers, and they’re passing the benefits onto players. For game producers, the old process of manufacturing games on cartridges and discs for retail was expensive and creatively suffocating. 
By digitally distributing their games, however, developers have greatly reduced the cost of marketing a game and eliminated many of the risks involved with distribution. Online, unburdened by storage and deployment costs, developers have the ability to make on-the-fly changes and take creative risks that wouldn’t be possible if the game was being sold on a shelf. “This lowered the barrier to entry for people who wanted to develop games, and we continue to see developers come to the PC to create things that are more difficult on other platforms,” says Piscatella. That’s led to the welcome arrival of more independent studios, and, for consumers, the presence of niche titles at competitive prices.“There are also more distribution channels on the digital side of PC gaming, which gives consumers more options to discover and purchase content — sometimes with promotional programs that are more appealing than what can be found on other platforms,” Piscatella adds.Long-term, he says, PC players enjoy lower costs than gamers on other platforms because they’re able to access many games online at little to no cost.“You can pick up League of Legends and play for free forever if you want,” Piscatella says. 
Esports is another trend galvanizing casual players to broaden their playing and consumption habits. No longer a group of niche gamers, the esports community now includes nearly 145 million fans from across the gaming spectrum, according to Bryan de Zayas, director, Dell Gaming. Professional competitors now have their own leagues and high-stakes competitions. Fans are able to watch them compete on numerous streaming services and major TV networks.Analyst Peddie says the dynamism of esports has made PC gaming more attractive for players who might not have always considered themselves hardcore gamers. Now, he says, players can more easily follow their favorite gamers and emulate their habits.“Esports has been a major contributor to the growth of the PC gaming market because it has exposed more people to the PC as a gaming platform,” he says. “PC gaming is more meaningful to players because they can relate to it.”“That has caused people to step up and get in the game.”PC gamers are also saving money on hardware. While high-end gaming PCs have typically been expensive, new models, such as the Inspiron 15 7000 Gaming, are easing the way to PC ownership by offering low-price computers that combine leading gaming technologies with helpful software for users’ personal and professional lives. Inspiron 15 7000 Gaming users can enjoy free, pre-installed access to Adobe, Microsoft Office and Dropbox, for example.
Of course, a gaming computer also needs top-of-the-line specs, and the new Inspiron 15 7000 Gaming delivers. The PC shares technology and developments from Dell’s Alienware professional gaming line, offering gamers jaw-dropping performance and graphics that have previously been present only in more-expensive machines. With an Intel® Core™ i7 quad-core processor and a NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 1060 discrete GPU, the new Inspiron 15 7000 Gaming gives players the most power and performance for their money.Illustration by Nicolas MénardThe news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation.