AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex MarshallLONDON — The Polish author Olga Tokarczuk could win a second consecutive Man Booker International Prize, arguably the world’s most significant award for literature translated into English, after she was shortlisted for the honor on Tuesday. Five of this year’s six nominated authors are women.If Ms. Tokarczuk wins for “Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead,” an unconventional detective novel that also discusses topics like animal rights and the influence of the Roman Catholic Church in Poland, it would be an unusual back-to-back victory for a major literary award. She won last year’s prize for “Flights,” a series of literary vignettes about modern-day travel.“Flights” was translated by Jennifer Croft, but her new novel was translated from the Polish by Antonia Lloyd-Jones.The Man Booker International Prize is awarded each year to the best book translated into English and published in Britain or Ireland. It is distinct from the more well-known Booker Prize, for fiction originally published in English, but both carry the same prize money of 50,000 pounds, or about $65,000.The prize is split equally between author and translator.“Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead” is about an eccentric woman in her 60s in rural Poland who decides to investigate the murders of members of her local hunting club. Despite being a whodunit, the book caused some controversy among Polish conservatives for its wider discussion of issues like the Catholic Church and environmentalism.“It will make you want to read everything Tokarczuk has written,” Nilanjana Roy wrote in the Financial Times. In The Guardian, the author Sarah Perry said the book “provides an extraordinary display of the qualities that have made Tokarczuk so notable a presence in contemporary literature.”The other shortlisted books, all of which were translated by women, are:• Annie Ernaux’s “The Years,” an experimental autobiography from the French author, which was also a history of French consumerism. “This is an autobiography unlike any you have ever read,” Edmund White said in a review for The New York Times. It was translated from the French by Alison L. Strayer.• Marion Poschmann’s “The Pine Islands.” Originally written in German and translated by Jen Calleja, it is about a lecturer who specializes in the unusual subject of male facial hair in cinema, who flees to Japan and ends up tracing the footsteps of the poet Basho.• “The Shape of the Ruins,” by the Colombian author Juan Gabriel Vásquez — the only man on the shortlist. It focuses on conspiracy theories that surround two political murders in Colombia, with Mr. Vásquez making himself the book’s central character. It was translated from the Spanish by Anne McLean.• Alia Trabucco Zerán’s debut novel “The Remainder,” about three friends in Santiago who take a road trip and end up confronting generations of family pain and the legacy of Chile’s dictatorship. Sophie Hughes did the translation from Spanish• “Celestial Bodies” by Jokha Alharthi of Oman. Translated from the Arabic by Marilyn Booth, the novel tells the story of her country’s evolution from slavery to skyscrapers through the prism of one family.The chairwoman of this year’s judging panel, the historian and author Bettany Hughes, said in a statement that the shortlist contained “wisdom in all its forms.”“Unexpected and unpredictable narratives compelled us to choose this vigorous shortlist,” she added. “Subversive and intellectually ambitious with welcome flashes of wit, each book nourishes creative conversation.”The winner is to be announced on May 21 at a ceremony in London.Advertisement