AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott TobiasEvery month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of TV shows and movies to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for March, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes schedules without giving notice.‘Eighth Grade’Starts streaming: March 1The ordeals of adolescent girlhood have been chronicled many times on screen, but not since Todd Solondz’s “Welcome to the Dollhouse” have they been as acutely registered as they are in Bo Burnham’s directorial debut. “Eighth Grade” doesn’t share the sourness of Solondz’s film, however, empathizing strongly with Kayla (Elsie Fisher) as she posts would-be viral videos, throws herself into awkward social situations and rolls her eyes at her overly attentive single father (Josh Hamilton), who doesn’t know how to help her. Burnham is particularly smart about integrating social media and messaging into Kayla’s story, and showing the ways they reinforce her isolation and desire to connect.‘La La Land’Starts streaming: March 1In the aftermath of its false Best Picture win against “Moonlight,” it’s been easy to forget how much momentum and good will Damien Chazelle’s throwback musical carried into Oscar night and how big a shock it was that it lost. But one of the benefits of “La La Land” not winning Best Picture is that it’s no longer freighted by the “importance” that goes along with the title. Chazelle’s musical pastiche about the Hollywood romance between an actress (Emma Stone) and a jazz pianist (Ryan Gosling) was always meant to be a light evocation of Gene Kelly and Ginger Rogers vehicles, coupled with the bittersweet quality of “The Umbrellas of Cherbourg,” and it’s now free to be enjoyed on those terms.‘The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind’Starts streaming: March 1The superb character actor Chiwetel Ejiofor makes his directorial debut with this adaptation of the best-selling memoir about a Malawian teenager who takes it upon himself to save his impoverished village. Maxwell Simba stars as William Kamkwamba, a boy who loses his education when his family can no longer afford to send him to school, but who become an autodidact to bring electricity and water to his drought-ravaged area. Using scrap materials and science textbooks, he attempts to construct his own wind turbine. Ejiofor gives himself a key supporting role as Kamkwamba’s father, who greets his son’s initiative with a mix of pride and practical concern.‘Juanita’Starts streaming: March 8Alfre Woodard has been acting in movies and on television for 40 years, and she’s as vibrant and appealing as ever in “Juanita,” a late-in-life road movie/romance that has been constructed around the title character’s range and adventurousness. Adapted from Sheila Williams’s novel “Dancing on the Edge of the Roof,” the film stars Woodard as a middle-aged woman who follows a one-way Greyhound bus ticket from the Columbus, Ohio, projects to Montana, where she turns around a struggling diner and finds refuge (and love). But on a journey intended to liberate her, she worries about being tied down someplace else.‘Triple Frontier’Starts streaming: March 13Netflix’s most prominent — and promising — film release in March brings together J.C. Chandor, the superb director of “All Is Lost” and “A Most Violent Year,” and Mark Boal, the screenwriter of “The Hurt Locker” and “Zero Dark Thirty,” for the story of an audacious heist that’s somewhere between greed and justice. Oscar Isaac, Ben Affleck, Charlie Hunnam, Pedro Pascal and Garrett Hedlund star as former Special Forces operatives who attempt to steal millions in cash from a South American drug cartel. The good news for them? The authorities won’t care about a cartel getting robbed. The bad news? The cartel definitely will.‘The Death of Stalin’Starts streaming: March 22With “The Thick of It,” “In the Loop” and “Veep,” Armando Iannucci firmly established himself as the most scabrous political satirist of the 21st century, but he goes back to the middle of the 20th for “The Death of Stalin,” which digs into the chaos and folly that follow the death of a tyrannical dictator. The operatives surrounding Joseph Stalin in 1953 turn out to be just the sort of inept, backbiting sycophants that populate Iannucci’s other comedies. What’s different about “The Death of Stalin,” beyond its sumptuous period trappings, is how well it captures the fear and paranoia that seized the Soviet Union during Stalin’s rule and threw the country into a period of uncertainty after his death.‘The Dirt’Starts streaming: March 22Even by the hard-partying, substance-abusing, hotel-trashing standards of ’80s hair-metal outfits, the members of Mötley Crüe were notoriously rambunctious, turning world tours into grotesque bacchanals that occasionally veered into the dangerous and self-destructive. Their collaborative autobiography, “The Dirt: Confessions of the World’s Most Notorious Rock Band,” is a bracing read that chases stories of shocking indulgence with sobering notes about addiction and a deadly car crash. The Netflix adaptation was directed by Jeff Tremaine, the man responsible for the “Jackass” movies, which seems like the perfect match for this material. “Bohemian Rhapsody” this is not.‘Kubo and the Two Strings’Starts streaming: March 23The Portland-based production house Laika has produced some of the most distinctive and sophisticated animated features of the last decade, using a 3-D stop-motion process to add tactility to odd little films like “Coraline,” “ParaNorman” and “The Boxtrolls.” Laika’s “Kubo and the Two Strings” enters the world of ancient Japan, where a boy wielding a lute-like instrument called a samisen tells stories out of dancing origami papers, but whose own life is destined to become the stuff of legend. His quest to stop the evil Moon King (Ralph Fiennes) is notably abstract for a mainstream family film, but it’s mitigated by kid-friendly team-ups like a talking monkey (Charlize Theron) and a human-insect hybrid (Matthew McConaughey).‘The Highwaymen’Starts streaming: March 29Over 30 years ago, Kevin Costner popped on a period fedora and tracked down the country’s most infamous criminals in “The Untouchables.” He’s doing it again in “The Highwaymen,” this time as a quick-triggered Texas Ranger who comes out of retirement to catch Bonnie and Clyde. He and an ex-partner, played by Woody Harrelson, are given maximum latitude as special investigators to end a robbery and killing spree that has left 13 cops dead, along with many others. Telling the Bonnie and Clyde story from a lawman’s perspective sounds a little square, given the groundbreaking swagger of the 1967 classic starring Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway, but there’s something to be said for playing a good story straight.‘Snowpiercer’Starts streaming: March 31The brilliant Korean genre director Bong Joon Ho (“The Host,” “Mother”) made his English-language debut with this futuristic “Ship of Fools,” in which the planet has been rendered uninhabitable and what remains of humankind is packed onto a train to nowhere. But the rules of society still apply: The have-nots are relegated to the dingy back cars of the train while the wealthy elite occupy spaces near the front, triggering a class war that threatens to send them off the tracks. Bong’s diverse cast of American, British and Korean actors gives “Snowpiercer” the right international flavor, but it’s Tilda Swinton who dominates as a Margaret Thatcher type who’s a merciless enforcer of the status quo.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Subscribe to our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]‘Cricket Fever: Mumbai Indians’Starts streaming: March 1In December, the eight-episode Netflix documentary series “Sunderland ’Til I Die” proved to be a fascinating look at a professional sports team during a serious inflection point in its history, when it was in danger of two straight relegations to lesser leagues. Now Netflix’s latest sports-doc series, “Cricket Fever: Mumbai Indians,” goes behind the scenes of a more successful franchise, the Mumbai Indians, as it tries to follow a championship year in the Indian Premier League. That’s hardly the adversity faced by Sunderland, but in the cricket-crazed city of Mumbai, the pressure to repeat is enormous.‘Formula 1: Drive to Survive’Starts streaming: March 8The life and death of the Formula One racer Ayrton Senna was the subject of a uniquely compelling documentary, “Senna,” told entirely through archival footage of interviews, family videos and hair-raising moments from the racetrack. Now a producer from that film, James Gay-Rees, has returned to the same world with “Formula 1: Drive to Survive,” a 10-episode series about the athletes competing for the 2018 F.I.A. Formula One Championship, which starts in Melbourne, Australia, and ends in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Maneuvering lightweight vehicles at 200 m.p.h., the drivers risk their necks every time they turn the ignition, but they are able to check their daredevil impulses through intense focus, discipline and training.‘Arrested Development: Season 5B’Starts streaming: March 15Even before discussion of Jeffrey Tambor’s alleged abusiveness on set derailed promotional efforts for the first half of its fifth season, “Arrested Development” has struggled to find the same absurdist groove of its original Fox run in its Netflix revival, despite enjoying fewer creative restrictions. Yet there’s always the lingering hope that Mitchell Hurwitz’s comic serial about the life and crimes of the Bluth family could turn things around. “Season 5B” pivots around courtroom drama, as Buster (Tony Hale) stands trial for the murder of Lucille 2 (Liza Minnelli).‘Turn Up Charlie’Starts streaming: March 15Idris Elba isn’t an actor known for his comic chops, but for a seven-episode run on the fifth season of “The Office,” his seriousness and chiseled good looks were turned against him, exposing a well-disguised ineptitude. Created by Elba and Gary Reich, the British comedy series “Turn Up Charlie” works a similar dynamic, casting Elba as a hapless DJ and bachelor whose weaknesses are further revealed when he has to play daddy to his famous friend’s troublemaking daughter (Frankie Hervey). Elba does some DJ-ing on the side in real life, too, so at least that part of the show will stand to be authentic.‘Delhi Crime’Starts streaming: March 22In 2012, a 23-year-old physiotherapy intern was gang raped and fatally beaten by six men on a private bus in South Delhi, a crime so horrific that thousands of protesters demanded (and received) legislative action to protect women against rape culture in India. The attack has been dramatized before, poorly, in Deepa Mehta’s 2016 docudrama “Anatomy of Violence,” but the seven-part series “Delhi Crime,” by the Indo-Canadian filmmaker Richie Mehta, was received more warmly out of Sundance. Mehta’s series deals with the police effort to investigate the crime, focusing on a female officer (Shefali Shah) with a personal interest in bringing the perpetrators to justice.Also of interest: “A Monster Calls” (March 1), “Dog Days” (March 1), “Space Jam” (March 1), “The Dark Knight Rises” (March 1), “Patriot Act With Hasan Minhaj: Volume 2” (March 3), “Christopher Robin” (March 5), “Forgetting Sarah Marshall” (March 6), “Lucy” (March 6), “After Life” (March 8), “Girl” (March 15), “Love, Death & Robots” (March 15), “Selling Sunset” (March 22), “The Legend of Cocaine Island” (March 29)Advertisement