AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Kenigsberg‘EL ÚLTIMO MALÓN’ at Maysles Cinema (April 2, 7 p.m.). The Maysles notes that this Argentine film from the late 1910s anticipates the staged documentaries of Robert Flaherty (“Nanook of the North”). The writer Alcides Greca recreated the poor living conditions and the eventual 1904 uprising of indigenous Argentines in the province of Santa Fe. The theater will screen this new restoration with live piano accompaniment.212-537-6843, maysles.orgNEW DIRECTORS/NEW FILMS at the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the Museum of Modern Art (through April 7). Every spring, the movie programmers at the Film Society and MoMA venture across the battlefield that runs from West 65th Street to West 53rd Street for a brief détente, which takes the form of this celebration of up-and-coming directors from around the world. Among the peace offerings this year are “Bait” (on Friday and Saturday), filmed in black-and-white 16-millimeter on the Cornish coast, and the Sundance-award-winning documentary “Honeyland” (on Wednesday and April 5), about a Macedonian beekeeper and her inconsiderate new neighbors. Manohla Dargis and A. O. Scott highlighted their favorite titles from this year’s edition in Wednesday’s paper.212-875-5601, filmlinc.org212-708-9400, moma.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]REELABILITIES FILM FESTIVAL at various locations (April 2-9). With a mix of narrative features and documentaries, this showcase highlights the lives of people and characters living with deafness, mental illness, autism, addiction and Tourette syndrome. In the opening film, “Moonlight Sonata: Deafness in Three Movements” (on Tuesday at JCC Manhattan), the director Irene Taylor Brodsky examines how different degrees of hearing loss molded her family; she shares the experiences of her deaf parents and a son who has grown up with cochlear implants. The film follows the boy as he learns to play Beethoven’s “Moonlight” Sonata. reelabilities.orgSECOND ANNUAL DR. SAUL AND DOROTHY KIT FILM NOIR FESTIVAL at Lenfest Center for the Arts (through March 31). A new addition to the classic film buff’s calendar, the Kit Film Noir Festival is this year organized around adaptations of Cornell Woolrich, whose writings provided the basis for François Truffaut’s “The Bride Wore Black” and Alfred Hitchcock’s “Rear Window” (both screening on Sunday), among the better-known titles, and who dropped out of Columbia, where this event is being hosted. But the bulk of the weekend, which intersperses movies and lectures, consists of seedier, less frequently revived work, including a double feature of B movies based on his stories on Saturday afternoon and, that night, a 35-millimeter showing of “The Chase,” starring Robert Cummings, which is regarded as strange even by the standards of noir. arts.columbia.edu/noirSTRANGE DESIRE: THE FILMS OF CLAIRE DENIS at BAM Rose Cinemas (March 29-April 9). When making a list of the greatest uses of pop music in screen history, clear plenty of room for this French filmmaker, a clear lock for both the use of “The Rhythm of the Night” at the end of “Beau Travail” (on Friday) — her poetic, elliptical spin on Herman Melville’s “Billy Budd” — and the Commodores’ “Nightshift” in “35 Shots of Rum” (on Sunday and April 6), the director’s tribute to Yasujiro Ozu. But soundtrack selections are only a small part of the pleasure in BAM’s survey of Denis’s films, in anticipation of her new sci-fi movie, “High Life,” opening on April 5. The treat is a rare screening of “U.S. Go Home” (on April 6). Named for a bit of graffiti seen near the end of the film, it’s actually a coming-of-age story about a teenage girl (Alice Houri) who sets out to lose her virginity one night and experiences a long evening of disillusionment, culminating in an awkward ride home from an American soldier (Vincent Gallo).718-636-4100, bam.orgTOTAL KAURISMAKI SHOW at the Metrograph (March 29-April 11). The Finnish director Aki Kaurismaki (“The Other Side of Hope,” showing on April 8 and 10) makes movies that are somehow simultaneously among the bleakest and the most uplifting in world cinema: They combine a deadpan Scandinavian sense of humor with a profound empathy for the downtrodden. The biggest gets in this retrospective are his 1980s and ’90s films, which the Metrograph will screen in archival 35-millimeter prints. In the droll modern-Shakespeare riff “Hamlet Goes Business” (on Friday, Saturday and Sunday), the melancholy Dane fits right into Kaurismaki’s universe, while in “Ariel” (on Friday), a miner (Turo Pajala) loses his job and stays stoic through an unceasing parade of misery before coming out on, well, the other side of hope.212-660-0312, metrograph.comSCREENTIMES: ‘THE BEST OF ENEMIES’ at Florence Gould Hall (April 3, 7 p.m.). Melena Ryzik, a New York Times culture reporter, will host an advance screening of this new drama, followed by a Q. and A. with its stars, Sam Rockwell and Taraji P. Henson, and its writer-director, Robin Bissell. Based on a true story, “The Best of Enemies” centers on the extraordinary relationship between Ann Atwater (Henson), a fearless and outspoken civil rights activist, and C. P. Ellis (Rockwell), a local Ku Klux Klan leader, and how they initiated school desegregation in Durham, N.C., in 1971. Bissell will discuss his directorial debut and Henson will share the timely relevance of this pivotal moment in civil rights history.timestalks.comAdvertisement