AdvertisementSupported byBy Sean L. McCarthyOur guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘DOUG LOVES MOVIES: 12 GUESTS OF XMAS’ at Gramercy Theater (Nov. 25-26, 8 p.m.). Doug Benson (“Super High Me,” “Last Comic Standing”) has starred in two Comedy Central series, but he’s perhaps best known for his long-running podcast about his love affair with cinema. In this series, he has discussed his adoration for film with comedians and Hollywood insiders — the director Eli Roth and the composer Michael Giacchino appeared on a recent episode recorded in Los Angeles. His guests for these shows in New York will be a surprise, but tickets will likely sell out regardless. 212-614-6932, douglovesmovies.comANDY KINDLER at Union Hall (Nov. 24, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Since 1996, Montreal’s prestigious Just for Laughs festival has asked Kindler to present his State of the Industry address each July to tell comedy tastemakers what’s what. The rest of the year, when he’s not voicing characters on “Bob’s Burgers,” Kindler is on the road entertaining audiences with his stand-up. A native New Yorker, he’s back home for the holiday weekend for two shows in Park Slope, Brooklyn.877-435-9849, unionhallny.com‘DINA MARTINA — CHRISTMAS SHOW’ at Sony Hall (Nov. 26, 8 p.m.; Nov. 27, 8 and 11 p.m.). A generation before Miranda Sings became a YouTube star, Dina Martina held, and continues to hold, the title of tragically awful singer, dancer and storyteller, debuting in Seattle back in 1989. The tickets for her first two “Christmas Shows” were selling well enough to add a third at 11 p.m. on Tuesday. Chris Jeffries accompanies Martina on the piano. No minors are allowed. 212-997-5123, sonyhall.com‘SCHTICK A POLE IN IT’ at Drom (Nov. 24, 8 p.m.). This monthly showcase in the East Village celebrates both stand-up comedy and aerial pole dancing. But don’t get it twisted: These dancers don’t strip. They’ll make you gawk at their gymnastic ability without having to take their clothes off. The comedians, meanwhile, may make you split your pants in laughter. This month’s theme is dedicated to Broadway and the show “Hedwig and the Angry Inch.” Dan Goodman, JoAnna Ross, Erica Spera and Anthony Devito will bring the laughs, while Liz Bohan, Cristi Levine and Patricia Yndigoyen will bring the dance. 212-777-1157, dromnyc.com‘WHY YOUR TRAIN IS ______’ at Caveat (Nov. 29, 7 p.m.). This love-hate comedy show about the history of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is hosted by Meg Pierson and Justin Williams. The theme for this month is trash, rats and track fires, and the authority’s chief customer officer, Sarah Meyer, will join the comedians onstage for a discussion about the strangest complaints she has ever received and how the authority really interacts with you on Twitter. If you want to know why you end up cursing the subway system, and you’re at least 21 years old, then this show is for you. 212-228-2100, caveat.nycAdvertisement