AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiLearn about an unusual cult that never existed in the season premiere of “Documentary Now!” And, with “Incredibles 2” competing for an Oscar this weekend, revisit its prequel on Freeform.DOCUMENTARY NOW! 11 p.m. on IFC. This parody documentary series from Fred Armisen, Bill Hader and Seth Meyers may be completely fictional, but it gets the genre’s aesthetic down to a T. This Season 3 opener takes pointers from bizarre stories about countercultural movements, specifically the popular series “Wild Wild Country” and the 2012 film “The Source Family.” A scruffy Owen Wilson plays Father Ra-Shawbard, a self-proclaimed spiritual leader who heads a commune of followers in Chinook, Ore., in the 1980s with the help of his assistant Ra-Sharir (Necar Zadegan). Michael Keaton appears as an agent in the F.B.I.’s “elite cult unit” who, contrary to traditional story lines, has a lot to do with Ra-Shawbard’s ascent.NAKED MOLE RATS 8 p.m. on Smithsonian. Want the secret to a long, healthy life? This new film suggests looking to naked mole rats, which have remarkably strong genes that perplex researchers. Scientists explain how these hairless, burrowing rodents manage to live on low oxygen and why they rarely get cancer. The rats may not be the planet’s prettiest creatures, but their biology is fascinating.THE INCREDIBLES (2004) 8:30 p.m. on Freeform; stream on Amazon; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu or YouTube. “Incredibles 2” is up for an Oscar on Sunday, and while it has some tough competition (“Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse” and “Ralph Breaks the Internet”), this prequel snagged two Oscars, for best animated feature and for sound editing. Craig T. Nelson lends his voice to Bob Parr, a crime fighter turned insurance-claims adjuster who longs for the days when he was Mr. Incredible. While he and his superhero family adjust to life as normal citizens, Bob is summoned to an island to face a vengeful robot (Jason Lee) — an assignment that calls for the whole family’s help. Holly Hunter voices Bob’s wife, Elastigirl, and Samuel L. Jackson steps in as his friend Frozone. To find out where the family ends up, stream “Incredibles 2” on Netflix.MOONSTRUCK (1987) stream on Amazon or Hulu; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu or YouTube. In an alternate reality where, on any given night, a full moon brightens up Brooklyn, Loretta (Cher in an Oscar-winning role), an Italian widowed bookkeeper, is engaged to the gullible, soft-spoken Johnny (Danny Aiello). When he travels to Sicily to tend to his ailing mother, Loretta meets his brother Ronny (Nicolas Cage), a hotheaded goofball who sweeps her off her feet.OUTSIDE YOUR BUBBLE stream live starting at 10 p.m. on Facebook Watch. In this new game show, presented by Buzzfeed News, contestants with opposing views (say, cat people versus dog people) compete for cash by answering questions that push them to think outside their bubble.Advertisement