AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleDo you listen to audiobooks? How is the experience different than reading a book? Do you have a preference? In your opinion, is one experience better?In the Opinion essay “Is Listening to a Book the Same Thing as Reading It,?” Daniel T. Willingham, a psychologist, compares the benefits of reading a book with the advantages of listening to one:A few years ago, when people heard I was a reading researcher, they might ask about their child’s dyslexia or how to get their teenager to read more. But today the question I get most often is, “Is it cheating if I listen to an audiobook for my book club?”Audiobook sales have doubled in the last five years while print and e-book sales are flat. These trends might lead us to fear that audiobooks will do to reading what keyboarding has done to handwriting — rendered it a skill that seems quaint and whose value is open to debate. But examining how we read and how we listen shows that each is best suited to different purposes, and neither is superior.In fact, they overlap considerably. Consider why audiobooks are a good workaround for people with dyslexia: They allow listeners to get the meaning while skirting the work of decoding, that is, the translation of print on the page to words in the mind. Although decoding is serious work for beginning readers, it’s automatic by high school, and no more effortful or error prone than listening. Once you’ve identified the words (whether by listening or reading), the same mental process comprehends the sentences and paragraphs they form.Writing is less than 6,000 years old, insufficient time for the evolution of specialized mental processes devoted to reading. We use the mental mechanism that evolved to understand oral language to support the comprehension of written language. Indeed, research shows that adults get nearly identical scores on a reading test if they listen to the passages instead of reading them.The article concludes:Still, that’s no reason for print devotees to sniff. I can’t hold a book while I mop or commute. Print may be best for lingering over words or ideas, but audiobooks add literacy to moments where there would otherwise be none.So no, listening to a book club selection is not cheating. It’s not even cheating to listen while you’re at your child’s soccer game (at least not as far as the book is concerned). You’ll just get different things out of the experience. And different books invite different ways that you want to read them: As the audio format grows more popular, authors are writing more works specifically meant to be heard.Our richest experiences will come not from treating print and audio interchangeably, but from understanding the differences between them and figuring out how to use them to our advantage — all in the service of hearing what writers are actually trying to tell us.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Is listening to a book just as good as reading it?— Do you listen to audiobooks? What are the benefits, in your opinion, of listening instead of reading? Are there advantages to reading that cannot be gained by listening? Which method do you prefer? Why?— Have you ever listened to a book assigned in school? Did it feel like cheating?— Should teachers ever assign audiobooks instead of books for reading? Do you think you would perform better on a test if you had to listen to a book rather than read it?— In comparing reading and listening with books, Mr. Willingham concludes,“Each is best suited to different purposes, and neither is superior.” Do you find his argument persuasive? Why or why not? After reading this Opinion piece, are you more likely to listen to an audiobook in the future?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Advertisement