AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘ANTHRACITE FIELDS’ at Zankel Hall (Dec. 1, 9 p.m.). Julia Wolfe’s Pulitzer Prize-winning oratorio on the plight of Pennsylvania’s coal miners is justly receiving numerous performances, not least because its politically charged content speaks to our present moment. Here, with projections by Jeff Sugg, it’s performed by the Choir of Trinity Wall Street and the Bang on a Can All-Stars, the group that Wolfe co-founded. Julian Wachner conducts.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgBACH COLLEGIUM JAPAN at Zankel Hall (Nov. 30, 7:30 p.m.). Masaaki Suzuki and his period-instrument forces have tended to bring larger-scale, often choral works to New York recently, so this predominantly instrumental program — including Bach, Vivaldi, Marcello and Telemann — is a welcome change of pace. There’s still vocal music, though, not least the motet “Silete Venti” by Handel with the soprano Joanne Lunn.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgJULIA BULLOCK at the Met Fifth Avenue (Dec. 2, 3 p.m.). This formidable artist’s residency at the Metropolitan Museum of Art continues with a recital of music set to poems by Langston Hughes. Helping Bullock out are the soprano Nicole Cabell, the New York Philharmonic clarinetist Anthony McGill, the violinist and composer Jessie Montgomery and the pianist and composer Ricky Ian Gordon.212-535-7710, metmuseum.org‘GREEK’ at BAM Howard Gilman Opera House (Dec. 5-6, 7:30 p.m., through Dec. 9). This in-your-face update of Oedipus is the first of four operas by Mark-Anthony Turnage, whose most recent works in the genre have been “Anna Nicole” and “Coraline.” Joe Hill-Gibbins’ production hails from Scottish Opera, and features Alex Otterburn in the lead role of Eddy. Stuart Stratford conducts.718-636-4100, bam.org‘LA TRAVIATA’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Dec. 4, 8 p.m., through Dec. 29). Willy Decker’s production of Verdi’s classic is no more, replaced by a new staging by Michael Mayer that receives its gala premiere this week. The cast for the December run — a second comes along in April — is led by Diana Damrau as Violetta, Juan Diego Flórez as Alfredo and Quinn Kelsey as Giorgio. Yannick Nézet-Séguin conducts.212-362-6000, metopera.org‘MESSIAH’ at St. Thomas Church (Dec. 4, 6, 7:30 p.m.). Yes, it’s that time of year again, as the “Messiah” season gets underway with this most distinctive of the city’s offerings. The St. Thomas Choir of Men and Boys sings accompanied by New York Baroque Incorporated, with the soloists Elizabeth Weisberg, Meg Bragle, Thomas Cooley and Alexander Dobson. Daniel Hyde, who leaves New York this fall to take up the storied post of director of music at King’s College, Cambridge, conducts.212-757-7013, saintthomaschurch.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Dec. 6, 7:30 p.m., through Dec. 8). The baritone Matthias Goerne has struck up a valuable partnership with the Philharmonic’s music director, Jaap van Zweden, notably braving the role of Wotan on the conductor’s “Ring” recordings with the Hong Kong Philharmonic on Naxos. Here, on a program that also includes Mozart’s Symphony No. 40, Goerne sings songs by Strauss and Schubert.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgAdvertisement