AdvertisementSupported byBy Sean L. McCarthyOur guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘ALIENS OF EXTRAORDINARY ABILITY’ at C’mon Everybody (March 15, 8 p.m.). The federal government hands out O-1 nonimmigrant visas to foreigners who wish to live and work in the United States and can prove they have extraordinary abilities. Orli Matlow, who’s originally from Canada, and Felipe Torres, from Colombia, host this show not only to spotlight their fellow funny aliens, but also to raise money for Raices, an organization providing legal services to refugees and immigrants. This show’s lineup features comedians from Norway, Kenya, Syria, Palestine and Australia. cmoneverybody.comFROM ESTHER TO HAMAN: A ROAST OF CANCELLED MEN at Housing Works Bookstore Cafe (March 19, 7 p.m.). The Jewish holiday of Purim is as good a time as any to celebrate the women who save civilization from the men who wish to destroy it. The 92nd Street Y presents this comedy show in SoHo, hosted by Josh Gondelman, a writer for “Desus & Mero,” and featuring Emmy Blotnick, a “Late Show With Stephen Colbert” writer; the host of NPR’s “Ask Me Another,” Ophira Eisenberg; Alison Leiby; and Jess Salomon. 347-473-7400, housingworks.org/events‘100 PEOPLE IN A ROOM’ at HUB Seventeen (March 15, 8:30 p.m.). Inspired by something Lady Gaga couldn’t stop saying while promoting “A Star Is Born” — that “there can be 100 people in the room, and 99 don’t believe in you” — this comedy show from Zach Zimmerman assigns audience members numbers upon arrival, with the goal of maxing out at 100. The night’s comedians — Josh Sharp, Marie Faustin, Michael Kayne, Maya Sharma — and the drag queen Ruby Fox will use these numbers to elicit participation during interactive games and crowd experiments. 212-627-0318, hubseventeennyc.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]‘THE ROAST OF YOUR 15-YEAR-OLD SELF’ at Carolines on Broadway (March 20, 7:30 p.m.). Oh, memories. Do you cringe thinking about your life as a teenager? The comedians in this show will improve your outlook on it, by making fun of their own experiences, complete with photos, diary entries and more evidence to prove that they’ve come a long way since then. Alise Morales hosts, with performances by Michelle Collins from SiriusXM, Kristen Bartlett, Nimesh Patel, X Mayo and Josh Sharp. You can buy discounted tickets using the promo code MYSPACE. 212-757-4100, carolines.com‘VINTAGE BASEMENT WITH MAX & NICKY’ at Kraine Theater (March 18, 9 p.m.). Every third Monday of the month, the twins Max and Nicky Weinbach host an old-school variety show, with music, magic and comedy. Their March lineup includes Roy Wood Jr. from “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah,” D.J. REAL and the magician Christian Cagigal.212-777-6088, horsetrade.infoAdvertisement