AdvertisementSupported byMatch BookBy Nicole LamyDear Match Book,I’m wondering if you can help me discover books for my husband, who is not a big reader. I am, however, and since I’ve become his personal librarian over the years, he reads more than he might otherwise.He is a scientist by training, an entrepreneur by vocation and an avid gardener and naturalist. He prefers realistic books with a strong sense of place or landscape, and mainly, but not exclusively, novels.One book that both of us love and reread regularly is “Little, Big,” by John Crowley. Another favorite is “Gilead,” by Marilynne Robinson. He loved “The Shipping News,” by Annie Proulx, and “The Greenlanders,” by Jane Smiley. He was bemused by Halldor Laxness’s “Independent People.” He likes “Pale Fire,” by Vladimir Nabokov, in part because it is set where we live, but he is not otherwise interested in literary games or a distinctive style. He likes John McPhee, but that’s about as far into nonfiction as he’ll venture. Can you make me look good by recommending books I can give him?AMY READING ITHACA, N.Y.Dear Amy,Elegant sentences, characters shaped by the land and reverence for human connection: I thought I had a handle on your husband’s taste, and my suggestions for him sat in a neat stack. But then I read “Little, Big.” Crowley’s digressive, fabulist saga (with its surprising amount of peculiar capitalization) left me bemused, and also prompted a realization: Your husband likes to read novels with a strong sense of place, but those places don’t need to be real. The next time you think about rereading that epic (and have 24 hours and 39 minutes free), consider the audio version; Crowley narrates the novel himself in a style that is pleasantly theatrics-free.The FantasticsYour affection for “Little, Big” also pointed me directly to another 20th-century classic, “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” by Gabriel García Márquez. Both immersive multigenerational stories are rooted in mysterious locations — Edgewood in Crowley’s novel, Macondo in Márquez’s — that exist on the hazy boundary between the real world and fantasy. The books also share a hypnotic, fablelike tone.Pieces of magic also surface in Linda Hogan’s evocative and largely realistic “People of the Whale.” The book follows the tragic love story of Thomas Witka Just and Ruth Small, a couple with inherited, supernatural affinities for water — their Native American community is bound to the sea — who seem destined to be together before a rash decision and the Vietnam War intervene.More speculative pleasures lie in Michel Faber’s “The Book of Strange New Things.” Like “Little, Big,” the novel takes imaginative leaps and holds a central love story — between Peter, a minister sent into space to tend to inhabitants of a new colonized planet called Oasis, and his Earth-bound, imperiled wife, Bea — at its heart. Faber vivifies the atmosphere and environment of the fictional planet, from its marked humidity to its insect life, with fascinating specificity. And, like “Gilead,” Faber’s novel binds earthly affection with questions of faith.Over the Meadow and Through the WoodsReligion also plays a central role in “Caleb’s Crossing,” Geraldine Brooks’s historical novel set in 17th-century Martha’s Vineyard. Bethia, the teenage narrator, is the daughter of a pastor whose path is maddeningly narrowed by the Puritans’ views of women. She changes course when her family meets a young Wampanoag boy named Caleb, a character inspired by a real-life historical figure, the first Native American to graduate from Harvard. The growing friendship between the two, and their shared love of nature (the kettle ponds, eel grass and beach plums growing on the island dunes), make it a match for your husband.I think the wild spaces evoked by Richard Powers in his knotty arboreal novel “The Overstory” — divided into roots, trunk, crown and seeds sections — will appeal to your husband’s science background, and the diverse spread of characters (linked by trees) will suit his literary taste.Shieling, gneiss, pash, choss, sheep-fank: While reading Robert Macfarlane’s essays in “Landmarks” you’ll want to pause to say the words — collected in glossaries throughout — aloud, savoring their pronunciations and meanings. Language, which Macfarlane catalogs as he crosses fields, moors and fells of England and Ireland, has never felt more vital or more incantatory than in the author’s stories about its symbiotic relationship to the land. Yours truly,  Match BookDo you need book recommendations? Write to matchbook@nytimes.com.Check out Match Book’s earlier recommendations here.Nicole Lamy is a writer and book critic, and the former books editor of The Boston Globe. Follow her on Twitter @NicoleALamy.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement