AdvertisementSupported byThe lives of Supreme Court justices, a poet’s treacherous trip to El Salvador, Mueller-related reading and more.We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:On our cover, we’ve got reviews of two new books about Supreme Court justices: Jeffrey Toobin reviews “First,” Evan Thomas’s biography of Sandra Day O’Connor, and Adam Cohen, a former Times opinion editor, writes about Joan Biskupic’s “The Chief: The Life and Turbulent Times of Chief Justice John Roberts.”Thomas visits the podcast this week to discuss “First,” and Mitchell S. Jackson is also on the show, talking about his latest book, “Survival Math.” “American Spy,” Lauren Wilkinson’s assured debut thriller, explores the career and moral quandaries of a black woman who’s undervalued in the boys’ club of the F.B.I.Our latest Graphic Content column looks at the genre of “graphic medicine,” comics illustrating the challenges of doctors and travails of patients.How did a teenage tech nerd transform himself into the boss of an international cartel? In “The Mastermind,” Evan Ratliff explains.Dwight Garner reviews “Lot,” a debut collection of stories by Bryan Washington set in the sprawling and multiethnic neighborhoods of Houston. “The promise Washington displays is real and large,” Garner writes.The essayist David Shields has never shied away from offering candid details about his inner and outer life. Parul Sehgal says he “breaks the sound barrier for indiscretion” in his latest book, “The Trouble With Men.”In 1977, someone Carolyn Forché had never met arrived at the poet’s door in California and convinced her to travel to El Salvador to document the perilous political turmoil there. Forché recounts her experience in “What You Have Heard Is True.” Jennifer Szalai reviews.Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has delivered his report on Russian interference in the 2016 election, but it might be some time before Congress or the public can read it. So for the meantime, we’ve put together a list of related reading.Our weekly list of recommended books includes Helen Oyeyemi’s new novel, “Gingerbread”; the story of Lizzie Borden’s trial; Isaac Mizrahi’s memoir and more. And don’t miss our list of 12 new titles to look for this month. We took a tour of this year's New York International Antiquarian Book Fair. On view? First editions of “Leaves of Grass” and an artist's interpretation of “Finnegans Wake.” The price tags were eye-popping — by the end, $2,500 for an old deck of cards started to sound entirely reasonable.Kurt Vonnegut’s hugely influential antiwar novel turns 50 this month, and his daughter recalls that when he was at work on the book, “he was writing to save his own life.”Separately, the novelist and Iraq war veteran Kevin Powers writes about the enduring “moral clarity” of the story, saying that Vonnegut “could cut through cant and sophistry and dissembling to expose our collective self-deceptions for what they are.”Back in 1982, when Mitchell Kaplan founded Books & Books, a publisher’s notion of Miami literature didn’t amount to much more than drug dramas and diet guides. But now, the store has several locations throughout Miami, a devoted following and a stocklist dedicated to representing the city’s diverse voices and narratives.Finally, happy 100th birthday to Lawrence Ferlinghetti, the poet, publisher and founder of San Francisco’s beloved bookstore City Lights. His new book, “Little Boy,” recounts his life story in a free association of flashes and arias. As our reviewer put it: “Ferlinghetti has not just survived for a century: He epitomizes the American culture of that century.”Advertisement