AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER at Alice Tully Hall (May 20, 5 p.m.). The Chamber Music Society rounds out its season with a focus on small-scale concertos, including works by Leclair, Bach and Mozart, as well as Janacek’s Concertino and an almost-contemporary work, Steven Mackey’s “Micro-Concerto” for solo percussion and quintet. Instrumentalists include the pianist Anne-Marie McDermott and the percussionist Ayano Kataoka.212-875-5788, chambermusicsociety.orgFREIBURG BAROQUE ORCHESTRA at Alice Tully Hall (May 19, 7:30 p.m.). This leading period-instrument orchestra delivers classicism in all its glory in this concert, which includes two of Mozart’s finest piano concertos led and played by the fortepianist Kristian Bezuidenhout — the No. 17 in G, K. 453, and the No. 9 in E flat, K. 271. Each concerto is preceded, almost as an overture, by a symphony: Haydn’s No. 74 and Johann Christian Bach’s in G minor.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/great-performersEVGENY KISSIN at Carnegie Hall (May 20, 2 p.m.). On the evidence of Mr. Kissin’s puzzling, recent Beethoven release on Deutsche Grammophon, and earlier acquaintances with his Beethoven in concert, I would not expect too much from the “Hammerklavier” Sonata on this program, but I would hope for far more from a series of 11 Rachmaninoff preludes, music in which he excels. Encores, as many as a dozen of them, ought to provide some variety from one of the Carnegie audience’s favorite pianists.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgMET ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (May 18, 8 p.m.). Mirga Grazinyte-Tyla, a young conductor whose reputation has already vaulted heavenward, takes command of the players of the Metropolitan Opera’s orchestra in a relatively safe program and leads them in Debussy’s “Prélude à l’après-midi d’un faune” and Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 4. Anita Rachvelishvili is the vocal soloist for Shostakovich’s arrangements of Mussorgsky’s “Songs and Dances of Death.”212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (May 24, 7:30 p.m., through May 26). Semyon Bychkov continues to occupy the Philharmonic’s podium and offers more interesting fare this week than last. He is a good conductor of Strauss, and he has made something of a specialty from “An Alpine Symphony,” which takes up the bulk of this concert. But the real treat is Berio’s “Sinfonia,” performed here with the outstanding vocal ensemble Roomful of Teeth.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgAdvertisement