AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BANG ON A CAN MARATHON at N.Y.U. Skirball Center (May 13, noon). Ten hours of free, live music are on offer Sunday afternoon and evening, with the welcome return of this New York institution. Highlights include an appearance by Terry Riley with his “Autodreamographical Tales”; a rare account of Galina Ustvolskaya’s Symphony No. 2; Vicky Chow playing Michael Gordon’s punishing piano work, “Sonatra”; the cellist Maya Beiser performing David Lang; avowedly political music in Frederic Rzewski’s “Coming Together”; and So Percussion popping up with music by Nicole Lizee.bangonacan.orgENSEMBLE SIGNAL at Miller Theater (May 14, 6 p.m.). Just one work on the bill at this free pop-up concert, with beer on hand, but a rewarding one: “Allegro Sostenuto,” a clarinet trio by Helmut Lachenmann, the central influence on so much music written in the past few decades. Adrian Sandí is the clarinetist; Lauren Radnofsky is the cellist; Oliver Hagen is on the piano.212-854-7799, millertheatre.comANNE LEILEHUA LANZILOTTI AND NINA C. YOUNG at 1 Rivington Street (May 14, 7 p.m.). The Metropolis Ensemble presents a night of new work for instruments and electronics from two leading composer-performers: The first is a violist, playing “Casalmaggiore”; the second is a violinist, playing “Sun Propeller” and “Meditation and Temenos.”metropolisensemble.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (May 17, 7:30 p.m., through May 22). Semyon Bychkov takes the podium at the Philharmonic this week, and his recent outings there have had a certain solidity, an assured quality, to them. After the Los Angeles Philharmonic’s performance of Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 5 only a couple of weeks ago in the same hall, the piece finds itself on this program too; it is preceded by Brahms’s “Tragic Overture” and Mendelssohn’s Piano Concerto No. 1. Bertrand Chamayou is the soloist.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgYUJA WANG at Carnegie Hall (May 17, 8 p.m.). Ms. Wang has been experimenting with stalwarts of the Austro-Germanic tradition in a few of her more recent Carnegie recitals — Beethoven, Schubert — but there’s none of that here. Instead, pyrotechnics and composers whose music is suited to her talents, not least an infectious sense of rhythm and a heady way with lusher sounds. On offer: preludes and études-tableaus by Rachmaninoff; études by Ligeti; a Prokofiev sonata, the Eighth; and Scriabin. Expect encores by the half-dozen.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgSHAI WOSNER at the 92nd Street Y (May 11, 9 p.m.). The last of three concerts from a subtle, sensitive pianist, all of which have looked afresh at Schubert’s late piano sonatas, with the latest of the late pieces, the disturbed, valedictory Sonata in B Flat (D. 960); and the Sonata in G (D. 894), a work too often overlooked. If that doesn’t convince you, a free glass of wine might.212-415-5500, 92y.orgAdvertisement