AdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderBy Katie Van SyckleTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.The streets of Park City, Utah, were again crackling this weekend with the energy of filmmakers, producers, critics, celebrities, reporters, publicists and film-loving tourists as they all converged on the city for the 2019 Sundance Film Festival.Moviemakers come to Park City to show (and sell) their latest creations, which frequently become some of the most popular films of the year. Reporters and critics from The New York Times fly in to see the newest batch of films and make a note of what to follow in the coming year.Manohla Dargis, the co-chief film critic for The Times, has gone to Sundance for the last two decades. What brings her back every year? When does she get excited? What does she eat? Read a lightly edited and condensed conversation with her below.How long have you been going to Sundance? I’ve been going for more than 20 years. I first went to Sundance when I was a regular freelancer for The Village Voice. It remains a really important festival to go to because there are always surprises, always new films that will come up and are kind of a shock to the system.How long do you stay in Park City? I’m there usually for the first week; it peters out at the end. Some film festivals have separate markets with buyers and sellers who are buying and selling rights for movies across the world. Sundance is a festival where you’re going in, press and industry together, so you’re going in and sitting next to the guys from Sony Classics.In the old days, more so than today, you’d see buyers leaping up after 10 minutes and you knew they were starting to deal and haggle in the lobby. I stay at least half an hour but I will walk out of movies, because there is always another movie. If that one didn’t work, I’m going to go see if there is something else. The festival is the only place I allow myself to walk out of a movie.Where does it fit into film coverage at The Times?It is the most important American film festival. It is one of the major world film festivals. The biggies are Cannes, Berlin and Venice, and then maybe Sundance — others might disagree. There was one year when I didn’t go and I was just so anxious about not going, like I was missing out on some discovery.You are seeing people who are not always young, but sometimes are young, and are just going to take everyone by storm. I was there last year for the premiere of Boots Riley’s “Sorry to Bother You.” That was just a fabulous premiere. It was held at an auditorium at the town’s library. It is actually a library, with uncomfortable seats. It was exciting. It was electric to be in that kind of room.There is so much oversaturation with coverage. I feel like, as a movie critic, I like to be able to see things before everyone else has seen them. I feel like I’m allowed to have a discovery. That is really important. When I write about them, I’m reporting back, not just to the readers but to the film section and alerting them as to what we need to look for in the coming year as things slowly are released into theaters.What is your Sundance routine? You said it involves the health food store?Usually it is very boring. The life of a film critic at a festival is not at all glamorous. And my routine really is, basically, you dump your luggage; you run and grab your pass; do a little bit of quick food shopping because it is very difficult, at least during the first week, to eat out. Restaurants are booked. But also if you’re seeing four to five movies, there is just not a lot of time. The theaters are scattered across town. So you’re either walking long distances or taking buses to go from one theater to the next. It really becomes the survival of the savviest — sneaking food into your bag, and pockets, and everything. My friend Kenneth Turan, a film critic for The Los Angeles Times, is always eating nuts and berries out of his pockets.What do you have in your pockets?I’m a vegetarian, but there is a really fabulous health food store there. They have sandwiches, and so I usually have a sandwich and a couple of little cookies that tide me over.How do you decide which movies you’ll see?It is a certain amount of investigation. First you start by just reading what is there. You’re checking to see: Is there a familiar name? Who are those names? There is a certain amount of buzz. But buzz is manufactured. Movies are being talked up by the people who are handling them. Virtually every movie has a publicist, or a team — my inbox is flooded with public relations notices for the movies. I have friends who are festival programmers. They will alert me. Sometimes you’re just stumbling into things, and that can be really exciting.What do you hope readers take away from the film coverage out of Sundance?I hope that they’re inspired. I always see things every single year that I find inspiring and exciting. That really kind of affirms that I’m right to love movies and there is a reason to love movies. Right now, there is a lot of talk about Netflix and streaming, but the theatrical experience is really important. When I’m going to Sundance, I’m sitting in a movie theater with a lot of people watching a movie and having a real theatrical experience. There is something really special about that and I really try to convey that. Movies are still something to get excited about.Which parties will you go to?The one party I do try to go to is Cinetic Media. They are a big player in the independent film world. It is always overcrowded, and it is always too noisy, which I always complain about. It is one of those parties where you have to basically yell at the person who is five inches from your head. But if you haven’t seen someone all week, because you can be on a completely different schedule than other people, you might see them at the Cinetic party. But mainly I’m just watching movies.Are there any other things you do to prepare for the week? I try to walk as much as possible. I have really good snow boots — they’re ugly as sin — and I just walk everywhere. I’m sitting for so many hours a day, sometimes 10 hours a day. If I have enough time, I try to walk. It clears my head and gets me ready for the next movie. And the health food store.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Advertisement