AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Shannon DoyneDo you enjoy watching movies? Have you felt that the characters or situations in a movie presented a lesson about how you should act, talk and look; or that movies taught you about the relationships you should cultivate or the values you should have?To what degree, if at all, do you think you benefited from those lessons?In “What the Movies Taught Me About Being a Woman,” Manohla Dargis, the co-chief film critic of The New York Times, writes:Movies teach us all sorts of things: how to aspire, who to fantasize about (all those princes will come), how to smoke, dress, walk into a room (always like Bette Davis). They teach us who to love and how, as well as the ostensible necessity of sacrificing love along with careers. They also teach us that showering, babysitting, being in underground parking lots or simply being female might get you killed. There isn’t a causal relationship between viewer behavior and the screen. There doesn’t have to be. Because movies get into our bodies, making us howl and weep, while their narrative and visual patterns, their ideas and ideologies leave their imprint.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What, if anything, do you agree with in Ms. Dargis’s assessment of what movies “teach” about topics like gender and romance? Explain.— What movies did you, or do you now still, feel illustrate what life is really like, or will be like when you are older? Why do you think that?— Do you think some of the movies you have seen send negative messages to viewers about, perhaps, how they should act or what to expect from family, friends, romantic partners, colleagues or neighbors?— Have you noticed prevalent stereotypes in movies? Have you seen movies that seem to have a bias toward certain groups? If so, what movie or movies come to mind?— Have you seen any of the movies referred to by New York Times readers who shared what lessons they have learned? Did any of their comments resonate with you?— Some of the comments mention genres, such as horror films and romantic comedies. What are your thoughts on these genres and what the writers say about them? What would you like to say about other movie genres?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Advertisement