AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergOur guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.‘DRAGNET GIRL’ at the Film Society of Lincoln Center (April 9, 7:30 p.m.). As the film noir expert Eddie Muller has noted, when “Dragnet Girl” was rediscovered in the 1970s, many critics had to expand their perceptions of Yasujiro Ozu, the Japanese director whose gently understated intergenerational family dramas (“Late Spring,” “Tokyo Story”) had earned him a global reputation as a master. By contrast, this early-1930s silent gangster drama finds Ozu tipping his hat to the Hollywood pictures of the period. It will screen with an electronic score performed live by Coupler. 212-875-5601, filmlinc.orgJAMMIN’ GEARS: TRUCKERS ON FILM at Anthology Film Archives (through April 21). When Fritz Lang said in “Contempt” that CinemaScope was only good for filming funerals and snakes, he neglected to mention big rigs and the open road. This series actually begins well before the wide-screen era, with George Raft and Humphrey Bogart as truck-driving brothers in “They Drive by Night” (on Sunday and Tuesday). And in between meat-and-potatoes thrillers (Steven Spielberg’s “Duel,” on Saturday and Wednesday, and Jonathan Mostow’s “Breakdown,” on Friday, Tuesday and Thursday) and oddities (Sam Peckinpah’s late-career “Convoy,” on Wednesday and April 12 and 21, adapted from a C. W. McCall song), the programming also cracks open a window on social issues of the 1970s. In “White Line Fever” (on Saturday and Monday), Jan-Michael Vincent plays a Vietnam veteran who takes on a corrupt trucking operation. 212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]THE OTHER JAPANESE NEW WAVE: RADICAL FILMS FROM 1958-61 at Japan Society (April 5-27). Nagisa Oshima’s “Cruel Story of Youth,” which had its premiere in 1960, may or may not be the definitive depiction of the alienation felt by Japan’s postwar generation, but as this retrospective — with rarities, top to bottom — illustrates, that film was hardly alone. Highlighting directors who are less known internationally, Japan Society will present works from several of Oshima’s contemporaries at the Shochiku studio and elsewhere in the Japanese film industry of the era, beginning with the director Kiju Yoshida, whose “Good-for-Nothing” (on Friday) centers on a nihilistic young man and the secretary who shows sympathy for him. “The End of Love” (on Saturday), directed by the film critic Eizo Yamagiwa, had been presumed lost but will now screen for what is said to be the first time in the United States. 212-715-1258, japansociety.orgWHAT PRICE HOLLYWOOD at the Museum of Modern Art (April 8-20). There’s a lot going on conceptually in MoMA’s latest series, designed as a companion piece to the vintage posters on display outside the museum’s theaters. The title comes from a 1932 George Cukor film (showing on April 13), which was a forerunner of “A Star Is Born.” The guiding intellectual spirit is the critic Parker Tyler, who asked in 1944 whether Hollywood would “remain monstrous and pernicious” or make movies that worked “toward an end beyond what any other art has accomplished in a mass sense.” The selections zero in on how movies have shaped perceptions of sexual politics. More than half the films come from the 1930s, but in terms of when they were released, the lineup begins with the silent-era star Louise Brooks (“Diary of a Lost Girl,” on Tuesday) and ends with Divine (“Female Trouble,” on Thursday and April 20). 212-708-9400, moma.orgAdvertisement