AdvertisementSupported byBy Des Shoe This feature is meant to send you into the weekend with a smile, or at least a lighter heart. Want to get The Week in Good News by email? Sign up here.Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:There was a nearly century-old ordinance against snowball throwing in Severance, Colo. Dane Best, who heard about the ban on a school trip to the Town Hall, gave a five-minute presentation to trustees that said the law was outdated.“Today, kids need reasons to play outside,” he said. “The children of Severance want the opportunity to have a snowball fight like the rest of the world.”The Town Board voted unanimously to lift whatever ban there might have been on snowballs. Dane triumphantly threw the first “legal” snowball this week. Read more »Last spring, Judith Jones and Carolyn Kenyon heard about R.I.P. Medical Debt, a nonprofit that buys past-due medical bills at a steep discount and forgives them. So the women, both of Ithaca, N.Y., started a fund-raising campaign of their own to help those in need.They raised $12,500 and sent it to the charity, which then purchased a portfolio of $1.5 million of medical debts on their behalf. Debts were forgiven for 1,284 New Yorkers. Read more »Hours after John Drennan and Daniella Anthony got engaged in New York, the ring slipped off her finger and fell down a sidewalk grate in Times Square. The couple, visiting from Britain, tried to recover it, then flagged down a police officer to report the mishap. Convinced the ring was lost forever, they walked away without leaving their names.After the ring was recovered, the police posted the news on Twitter with a request for help finding the couple. It didn’t take long for the news to spread to Britain.“We are absolutely ecstatic,” Mr. Drennan said. He added that love itself was far more valuable than a ring: “When you have something so beautiful like that, it just puts everything in perspective.” Read more »The healthy, six-pound baby girl was born in São Paulo, Brazil, to a woman who received a uterus from a 45-year-old donor. It is the first such birth to be reported. A viable procedure to transplant uteri from deceased women could drastically increase the availability of the organs.“We talk about lifesaving transplants. This is a life-giving transplant, a new category,” said Dr. Allan D. Kirk, the chief surgeon at Duke University Health System. Read more »The remains of a man who could have been a fisherman or dock worker 500 years ago were found deep in the mud of the River Thames in London. His boots were a point of interest.“We never find high boots like this — they are always shoes or ankle boots,” Beth Richardson, a specialist with MOLA Headland, which leads digs on infrastructure sites, said. “High boots are just not very common throughout medieval times.”The man and his rare boots were found on the construction site of the Thames Tideway Tunnel. Last year, the Museum of London exhibited some of the artifacts found during construction for another megaproject: Crossrail. They included a Victorian chamber pot bearing the inscription, “Oh what I see I will not tell.” Read more »Women now form an essential part of the national market for Lake Kivu fish. The fish economy, traditionally occupied by men, has created opportunities for women to form collectives and earn their own income.Bonifrida Mukabideri is a founding member of Projet Pêche, a fishing cooperative of 87 women in Kibuye, a resort town along the banks of the lake.“I am very proud to be a part of the cooperative,” she said. “Now a woman can say: ‘I can build a house by myself. I can look after my family properly. And even if my husband dies, we can live a better life.’ ” Read more »A new generation has the opportunity to experience the video games and consoles that older gamers cherished (and we older gamers can revisit our favorites). Nintendo helped popularize the retro gaming trend with the 2016 release of the NES Classic, a scaled-down version of its original console, and 30 vintage games. Some struggling brands, like Atari, are getting a boost as well.Sony introduced the PlayStation Classic this week, loaded with 20 games for $100. “It’s kind of like watching a classic movie versus a remake or a colorized version,” Eric Lempel, the senior vice president of global marketing at PlayStation, said. “This is the way you remember those games.” Read more »What would you like to see here? Email us at goodnews@nytimes.com. You can enjoy more of this feature at nytimes.com/goodnews.Follow Des Shoe on Twitter: @DesNYT.Advertisement