AdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Zachary WoolfeLOVE IS BLIND By William Boyd 369 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95In his new novel, William Boyd has a veteran pianist explain the way a piece of music draws a listener’s tears: Just when you think you know where the harmony is going to go, it remains tantalizingly unresolved. “An old trick,” the pianist says. “But old tricks are the best.”That’s the bet Boyd is making in “Love Is Blind,” his 15th novel. Like the music his brilliant if drunken keyboard virtuoso is describing, the narrative never veers from the expected; even its twists fit into well-worn grooves. This is a “play it again, Sam” kind of production, the novelistic equivalent of the showy orchestral chestnut “Pines of Rome.” “Love Is Blind” goes down easy, its pleasures are vaguely guilty, and upon setting it down, it swiftly vanishes from the mind.Boyd’s books have included more serious (and more funny) efforts — like “Any Human Heart” (2003), a vigorous account of a 20th-century life, and the richly nuanced, darkly comic “An Ice-Cream War” (1983) — as well as slighter, larkier ones like this. (Five years ago he published “Solo,” a James Bond novel that got a mixed reception.) In the past, he has sometimes been intrigued by larger issues, like the mutability of identity and the helplessness of individuals confronted with — and subsumed by — the great processes of history. With implausible suavity, “Brazzaville Beach” (1991) interwove its characters’ motivations with the study of primate evolution. (Yes, you and me, according to Boyd, we ain’t nothin’ but mammals.)[ Why characters like James Bond do, indeed, live more than once. ]But there’s no philosophical armature to “Love Is Blind,” only the most convoluted of bildungsromans. His fin de siècle hero — a sensualist, as is Boyd’s wont in his young male stars — is Brodie Moncur, a quick-witted Scot with a gift for tuning pianos. His is the art and craft not just of tightening an instrument’s screws, but also of subtly tailoring its mechanisms to an expert player’s strengths and weaknesses. (The vocation also inspired Daniel Mason’s similarly smooth 2002 novel, “The Piano Tuner.”)Sent from Edinburgh to Paris by his piano-maker employer to help open a new branch of the business, Brodie comes up with a plan to market the brand by securing an endorsement deal with a star musician. He settles on John Kilbarron — “a bit passé, perhaps, but one of the real old-school klaviertigers 10 or 20 years ago.”Kilbarron’s nickname is the “Irish Liszt,” and Boyd seems to want to evoke the fervid, sweaty, dazzling artistry of Franz Liszt, whose hysteria-arousing recitals were the Elvis concerts of their day. But “Love Is Blind” isn’t all that interested in conveying the experience of listening to — let alone playing — music, even if there are sweet little descriptions of the invisible trickery (thin strips of lead glued here, a faint sanding-down there) that is the tuner’s sleight of hand.What Boyd is interested in conveying the experience of is lust. Brodie falls helplessly in love with Kilbarron’s mistress, the aspiring Russian singer Lika Blum (who responds, in kind), and follows to St. Petersburg the whole musical entourage, including the pianist’s menacing brother, Malachi. Brodie and Lika’s subterfuges grow less and less tenable, and the lovers eventually flee, but they find themselves entangled in, and finally shattered by, a Kilbarron family secret — albeit one that’s been loudly hinted at for much of the book.Into this rather longwinded and stagy mix, Boyd throws a variety of devices: a tyrannical father, an allegation of musical plagiarism, a false accusation of fraud and a simmering case of tuberculosis. (Of course Brodie has to come down with that classic disease of sex and creativity.) There are halfhearted efforts to place the plot vividly in its time. “While he lay in bed waiting for visitors,” Boyd writes, “Brodie read newspapers. He read about the continuing animosities of the Dreyfus Affair, the celebrations being organized around Queen Victoria’s Diamond Jubilee, the economic tribulations facing President McKinley, and a review of a shocking novel called ‘Dracula.’” Yep, 1897 it is!Its title suggests that, while its milieu is music, the novel is more directly concerned with immortalizing great passions in general — in finding sensuality wherever it may lurk, including in the sonic. But the book’s promise of eroticism ends up involving only some risible sex writing. “He reached down and touched her,” Boyd writes of Brodie and Lika’s lovemaking, “his fingers on the thick blond furze of her pubis, cupping it under his palm. He felt hugely aroused again, massively potent.”Perhaps this prose is meant to feel cozily dated, like the character that Boyd describes as “dressed in a style that had been fashionable half a century before.” If so, it’s depressing that he thought that classical music would be the perfectly complementary subject matter, as lovably hoary as the narrative style he is pantomiming. In any case, however, there are only flickers of the charm you would want to steadily emanate from such a period production. “Love Is Blind” eventually reminded me of a tired revival of one of Franco Zeffirelli’s decades-old, hyper-naturalistic stagings for the Metropolitan Opera: all surface detail, no life.“He looked intently at her face in the oval cameo,” Boyd writes, “but the dated formalities of the pose, the exposure’s long hold denied any sense of the real person emerging from the portrait.”Zachary Woolfe is the classical music editor for The Times.Advertisement