AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey Fortin and Sarah MervoshIf the Democratic presidential candidate Cory Booker runs a successful campaign through 2020, he could enter the White House as one of only a few presidents who were not married when they took office.And so, in addition to the more typical questions about his candidacy — What are his odds in one of the most crowded and diverse Democratic primaries in American history? Could his candidacy be hurt by past connections to Wall Street and Silicon Valley? — people have also been wondering:Is he dating anyone?Mr. Booker, 49, who has talked about how his mother was pestering him to get married, has tended to be tight-lipped. But last month, he opened up a little bit more.“I’m dating somebody really special,” he said during a radio appearance. “I got a boo.”On Thursday, Rosario Dawson, the actress and political activist who supported Bernie Sanders during the 2016 presidential campaign, confirmed widespread speculation that it was she who was dating Mr. Booker, according to a video posted by TMZ.“I am just grateful to be with someone that I respect and love and admire so much,” Ms. Dawson, 39, said in the video, batting away a question about the possibility of a future engagement.On Thursday, representatives for Ms. Dawson did not immediately respond to requests for comment, and a spokeswoman for Mr. Booker’s campaign declined to comment on the relationship between the two.Ms. Dawson’s comments on TMZ came after gossip websites had already gushed that the two had been seen together at the movies and had even reportedly said “I love you.”Mr. Booker, a United States senator from New Jersey and the former mayor of Newark, has campaigned on a message of unity since he announced his candidacy on Feb. 1, the first day of Black History Month. Should he win, he could join the likes of Grover Cleveland and James Buchanan, two presidents who were not married when they took their oaths of office.Ms. Dawson, an actress known for roles in movies including “Rent” and “Sin City,” is also a co-founder of Voto Latino, a civic media organization and advocacy group for Latino voters in the United States.She was a prominent supporter of Mr. Sanders during the 2016 primary. Ms. Dawson drew criticism at one point for invoking Monica Lewinsky at a rally for Mr. Sanders, who faced Hillary Clinton in the Democratic primary. Afterward, Mr. Sanders offered support for Ms. Dawson: “She’s been a passionate fighter to see that we increase the voter turnout, that we fight for racial, economic, environmental justice,” he said.Asked by TMZ on Thursday whether Mr. Booker would make a good president, Ms. Dawson said, “I think so, yeah. He’s an amazing human being.”Advertisement