AdvertisementSupported byThe Times’s staff critics give their choices of the best fiction and nonfiction works of the year.By Dwight Garner, Parul	 Sehgal and Jennifer SzalaiIf we had to use a single word to describe the past year in books, it might be eclectic. Novels were told from the perspective of a woman imprisoned for murder, a woman who suddenly inherits a Great Dane and a woman having an affair with a writer who strongly resembles Philip Roth. We also got an esteemed literary biographer turning her lens on herself, a sprawling, fresh look at New York’s postwar art world and cleareyed advice about how to die. As in 2017, some of the year’s best nonfiction addressed global tumult — but a bit more subtly, in several cases, by casting an eye back to distant but still-resonant history, like the decades of deferral and denial that led to the Civil War. Below, The New York Times’s three daily book critics — Dwight Garner, Parul Sehgal and Jennifer Szalai — share their thoughts about their favorites among the books they reviewed this year, each list alphabetical by author. A note on methodology: The critics limit themselves in making these lists, each selecting only from those books they reviewed for The Times. For more of their thoughts about the year, including books they may not have reviewed themselves but still enjoyed, you can read their related roundtable discussion. — John Williams, Daily Books Editor and Staff WriterThe books that most stung my interest this year — six novels, two books of short stories, a memoir and a collection of criticism — are very different in terms of syntax and sentiment. But each implicates the reader deeply. Each delivers the sense of an especially sentient human being seeking to explain something that matters. Each proposes to teach us all over again how to think, to feel, to see.‘EVENING IN PARADISE: MORE STORIES’ By Lucia Berlin (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Berlin (1936-2004) was a writer of tender, chaotic and careworn short stories, and her rediscovery this decade has been a pleasure to witness. This collection follows “A Manual for Cleaning Women” (2015), and it solidifies her position as a writer who deserves to be discussed alongside such contemporary short story masters as Raymond Carver and Grace Paley. These stories are set in Chile and Texas and Manhattan and Oakland, places Berlin knew well, and they feature women who learn to think early about what to take and what to leave in life. (Read the review.)‘KUDOS’ By Rachel Cusk (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). This small, flexible, strikingly intelligent novel is the third and concluding volume in Cusk’s Outline trilogy. Once again we’re inside the mind of Faye, a footloose British writer, who is divorced and the mother of two sons. Not a lot happens in “Kudos,” beyond a trip to a literary festival in what seems to be southern Italy, but the reader is held rapt by Cusk’s cool scrutiny of the world, by the attention she pays to topics like parenthood, travel and the idiosyncrasies of human interaction. (Read the review.)[ Read the critics discussing more about the year in books. ]‘MOTHERHOOD’ By Sheila Heti (Henry Holt & Company). Heti’s earthy and philosophical and essential new novel is about a woman in her late 30s, a writer, who pushes back against the notion that she needs to have offspring to possess a full life. “Having children is nice,” she says. “What a victory to be not-nice.” Heti’s prose is hard, direct, aphoristic, wired for sound. Her narrator makes a banquet out of her objections to bourgeois verities. Brutal questions emerge: What if you decline motherhood in favor of your art and your art turns out to be mediocre? (Read the review.)‘THE LARGESSE OF THE SEA MAIDEN: STORIES’ By Denis Johnson (Random House). This posthumously published book of short stories is the long-awaited follow-up to Johnson’s “Jesus’ Son” (1992), perhaps the most influential and beloved volume of American short stories of the past three decades. We catch up with Johnson’s no-hopers and grievous angels; they’re a few decades older and, for the most part, little wiser. One can say about this book what one narrator says about a collection of poems he loves: “They were the real thing, line after line of the real thing.” (Read the review.)‘THE MARS ROOM’ By Rachel Kushner (Scribner). The title of Kushner’s grainy and persuasive novel refers to a notorious strip club in San Francisco. Romy, the young narrator, worked there before being sent to prison for life for killing the man who stalked her. Kushner’s portrait of Romy’s anarchic, near-orphaned childhood in San Francisco is a great, subversive portrait of the city. This is a brooding book, one that dwells on Dostoyevskian notions of innocence and evil. It moves like a muscle car, oozing down the side roads of your mind. (Read the review.)‘SEE WHAT CAN BE DONE: ESSAYS, CRITICISM, AND COMMENTARY’ By Lorrie Moore (Alfred A. Knopf). This volume of personal essays, book and television reviews and political observations, most of them written for The New York Review of Books, floods your veins with pleasure. As a critic, Moore has an intimate and approachable voice. She doesn’t mistake solemnity for seriousness and, in nearly every paragraph, seems to be utterly enjoying herself. Her pieces have what Anthony Lane said every review should have, an “authentic reek of the concession stand.” (Read the review.)‘MY YEAR OF REST AND RELAXATION’ By Ottessa Moshfegh (Penguin Press). Moshfegh is a young American writer of Croatian and Iranian descent who writes with misanthropic aplomb. The unnamed heroine of her third novel is a kind of brand ambassador for ennui. Like Oblomov in the Russian novel, she wants to spend most of her time sleeping. She begins to wonder: Why climb out of bed at all? If she’s on downers, this black comedy is on uppers. It’s a remorseless little machine. Though this novel is set 20 years ago, it feels current. The thought of sleeping through this particular moment in the world’s history has its appeal. (Read the review.)‘THE FRIEND’ By Sigrid Nunez (Riverhead Books). Nunez’s dry, allusive and charming new novel has the makings of a broad comedy. It’s about what happens when a woman who lives in a tiny Manhattan apartment inherits, after the suicide of a former mentor and lover, his harlequin Great Dane. The novel’s tone, however, is frequently mournful and resonant. Nunez has an interesting mind, and she shakes the dust from every topic — grief, writing, academia, sexual politics — she picks up. (Read the review.)‘THERE THERE’ By Tommy Orange (Alfred A. Knopf). Orange’s first novel is set in Oakland, Calif., and takes its mocking title from Gertrude Stein’s observation about the city, which is that’s there’s no there there. Its topic is urban Indians, young men and women who “know the sound of the freeway better than we do rivers.” Orange is a muscular storyteller. He deals out the stories of his 12 characters, many of them related, as their lives move toward an event called the Big Oakland Powwow, from which some of them will not return. (Read the review.)‘A LIFE OF MY OWN’ By Claire Tomalin (Penguin Press). Tomalin, the esteemed English biographer of Samuel Pepys, Jane Austen, Charles Dickens and others, writes briskly and sensitively here of her own life. She attended Cambridge a year ahead of Sylvia Plath and she spent many years in swinging, sexist London as the editor of well-regarded book review sections. Her first husband, the journalist Nicholas Tomalin, cheated on her relentlessly before dying young while reporting in Israel. One of their children was born with spina bifida, a defect of the spinal chord. This book’s tone is never maudlin. There’s great appeal in watching this indomitable woman continue to chase the next draft of herself. (Read the review.)Nicholson Baker once said that every novel asks the same question: Is life worth living? The books I loved most this year — a heretical, often form-shattering bunch — take it one step further. They are why we live: to encounter questioning, mayhem, wisdom and wit — to read books such as these.‘NINETY-NINE GLIMPSES OF PRINCESS MARGARET’ By Craig Brown (Farrar, Straus & Giroux.) Brown ignores the starchy obligations of biography and adopts a form of his own to tell the story of beautiful, bad-tempered, scandal-prone Princess Margaret, one of the 20th century’s great malcontents. He swoops at his subject from all angles, in a Cubist portrait of a lady — one chapter enumerates her most famous rebukes. But the book’s real artistry is in how the focus enlarges, from Margaret’s misbehavior to those who gawked at her, pens poised over their diaries. History isn’t written by the victors, Brown reminds us, it’s written by the writers, and this study becomes a scathing group portrait of a generation of carnivorous royal watchers. (Read the review.)‘THE IMPOSTOR: A TRUE STORY’ By Javier Cercas, translated by Frank Wynne (Alfred A. Knopf). For three decades, Enric Marco, a Catalan mechanic, was a prominent public face of Spanish survivors of the Holocaust, until his story was revealed to be a hoax in 2005. Cercas, a novelist, becomes Marco’s (somewhat reluctant) Boswell in this work of nonfiction as he tries to understand why the man lied and why he was believed, and to investigate his own queasy feelings of kinship. It is thrilling to be in the room with the two of them once their cat-and-mouse game commences. (Read the review.)‘YOUR DUCK IS MY DUCK: STORIES’ By Deborah Eisenberg (Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers). Eisenberg is a writer of legendary exactitude, and slowness. This is her first new collection since 2006, and well worth the wait — so instantly absorbing that it feels like an abduction. These are stories of painful awakenings and refusals of innocence, emerging out of the ashes of the invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan, despoliation and environmental plunder. The sentences are full of syntactic fireworks, breakneck swerves and very black humor. “I’m hurtling through time, strapped to an explosive device, my life,” the narrator of the title story tells her therapist. “Plus, it’s beginning to look like a photo finish — me first, or the world.” (Read the review.)‘ASYMMETRY’ By Lisa Halliday (Simon & Schuster). Halliday’s first novel is two in one: a May-December romance featuring a character who bears a terrifically unabashed resemblance to Philip Roth and a slowly unspooling tragedy about an Iraqi-American detained at Heathrow Airport. A third section hints at the link between these two stories that never explicitly intersect. The deep pleasure for the reader is to trace resonances, how themes chime and rhyme as well as Halliday’s underlying, beautifully articulated arguments about fiction’s possibilities and obligations. It’s the kind of book that makes you a better reader, a more active and subtle noticer. It hones your senses. (Read the review.)‘AMERICAN SONNETS FOR MY PAST AND FUTURE ASSASSIN’ By Terrance Hayes (Penguin Poets). In these 70 sonnets, written after the election of 2016, Hayes set himself the challenge of writing political poems in the guise of love poems. Each one is distinct: Some are sermons, some are swoons. They are acrid with tear gas, and they unravel with desire. Hayes revisits lifelong obsessions — the cage of masculinity, the gulf between fathers and sons — and plays with different registers, returning to lamentation, to annihilating grief for “all the black people I’m tired of losing,” as one narrator says. “All the dead from parts of Florida, Ferguson, / Brooklyn, Charleston, Cleveland, Chicago, / Baltimore.” (Read the review.)‘BELONGING: A GERMAN RECKONS WITH HISTORY AND HOME’ By Nora Krug (Scribner). Krug slashes through a fog of shame, determined oblivion and misdirection to unearth her family’s role in the Holocaust as well as the stubborn silences in German life. Her visual memoir takes the form of an overstuffed scrapbook, jammed with letters, photographs and passionate paeans to household goods of her childhood — soap, a brand of bandage, a rubber hot water bottle — that speak to those unappeasable desires to wash away stains, mend scars, make whole. The wisdom of this book is that it eschews such palliatives. What Krug pursues is a better quality of guilt, a way of confronting the past without paralysis. (Read the review.)‘THE COLLECTED STORIES OF MACHADO DE ASSIS’ By Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis, translated by Margaret Jull Costa and Robin Patterson (Liveright). For the first time, the short stories of this 19th-century Brazilian master have been collected and translated into English, allowing the reader to trace the arc of Machado’s career, from the straightforward early love stories to the postmodern later works. Certain preoccupations persist: alluring widows, naïve young men, a fondness for coincidence. Above all looms the figure of the bibliomane. “This is my family,” one says, pointing to his bookshelf. Like his characters, Machado was a creature of literature; ink ran in his veins. It is breathtaking to see the development of his style as well as his deep engagement with storytelling all over the world. (Read the review.)‘THE TANGLED TREE: A RADICAL NEW HISTORY OF LIFE’ By David Quammen (Simon & Schuster). Quammen’s latest is the biography of a groundbreaking idea — and its many midwives, chief among them Carl Woese, “the most important biologist of the 20th century you’ve never heard of.” Our greatest living chronicler of the natural world, Quammen makes elegant work of complicated science, describing the discovery of horizontal gene transfer and its challenge to our conception of stately Darwinian inheritance with vivacious descriptions on every page. The sentences are spring-loaded and each section ends with a light cliffhanger. Quammen has the gift of Daedalus; he gets you out of the maze. (Read the review.)‘ESSENTIAL ESSAYS: CULTURE, POLITICS, AND THE ART OF POETRY’ By Adrienne Rich, edited and with an introduction by Sandra M. Gilbert (W.W. Norton and Company). This collection of Rich’s influential criticism reveals how her private reckonings with motherhood, sexuality, Jewishness and tokenism blossomed into her public stances and poetry. We see how frequently, and powerfully, she wrote from her divisions, the areas of her life where she felt vulnerable, conflicted and ashamed. For Rich, a thinking life, a political commitment, did not mean achieving perfect awareness but embarking on “a long turbulence.” It is a peerless pleasure to join her in this work, to be enveloped by her capacious heart and mind. (Read the review.)‘ADVICE FOR FUTURE CORPSES (AND THOSE WHO LOVE THEM): A PRACTICAL PERSPECTIVE ON DEATH AND DYING’ By Sallie Tisdale (Touchstone). This brilliantly deceptive book is, putatively, a guide to what happens to the body as it dies and directly after. Tisdale, a longtime palliative care nurse, offers advice on every stage of the process: whether to die in the hospital or at home, how to handle morphine’s side effects, how to breathe when it becomes difficult. But in its loving, fierce specificity, this book on how to die is also a blessedly saccharine-free guide for how to live. (Read the review.)I tried to discern an overriding theme that connected these books, and I couldn’t — which just goes to show how various and expansive nonfiction can be, even if it sometimes seemed as if a single figure was bent on making it hard to pay attention to anything else. There’s a significant historical contingent on this list: Whatever is happening in the country at the moment has roots that extend far beyond the election of 2016, and three of the books are specifically about the turmoil and ruptures of the 19th century. I was also drawn to writers who took what we assumed about something or someone and deepened our understanding to the point of disturbing it; I was grateful to be shown how little I know, and how much more there is to learn.‘RISE AND KILL FIRST: THE SECRET HISTORY OF ISRAEL’S TARGETED ASSASSINATIONS’ By Ronen Bergman, translated by Ronnie Hope (Random House). Blending history and investigative reporting, Bergman has written a judicious book about an incendiary subject: secret assassinations committed by Israel’s intelligence services. There is plenty here about tradecraft and risky missions gone awry, but Bergman never loses sight of the ethical questions that arise when a state insists it needs to kill in order to survive. (Read the review.)‘FREDERICK DOUGLASS: PROPHET OF FREEDOM’ By David W. Blight (Simon & Schuster). The first major biography of Douglass in nearly three decades, Blight’s comprehensive volume delves into the Douglass we didn’t know, including his trajectory from fugitive slave and abolitionist outsider to political insider, through the Civil War and beyond. Blight isn’t looking to overturn our understanding of Douglass, but to complicate it — a measure by which this ambitious and empathetic biography resoundingly succeeds. (Read the review.)‘THE WAR BEFORE THE WAR: FUGITIVE SLAVES AND THE STRUGGLE FOR AMERICA’S SOUL FROM THE REVOLUTION TO THE CIVIL WAR’ By Andrew Delbanco (Penguin Press). Delbanco traces how the compromises of the Constitution, along with the long history of compromise in the century that followed, tried to paper over the violent reality of chattel slavery. But the slaves who ran away were persistent reminders of the truth. Delbanco’s riveting and unsettling book shows how questions that preoccupied Americans in the 18th and 19th centuries continue to resonate in our own. (Read the review.)‘THE PERSONALITY BROKERS: THE STRANGE HISTORY OF MYERS-BRIGGS AND THE BIRTH OF PERSONALITY TESTING’ By Merve Emre (Doubleday). On the face of it, this is supposed to be a history of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator; it turns out to be something much stranger — an inventive and beguiling biography of the idiosyncratic mother-daughter pair who developed the indicator using their own, decidedly unscientific, interpretations of human behavior. If there’s a theme in this book, woven throughout and never belabored, it’s that the self is more slippery than we allow. (Read the review.)‘NINTH STREET WOMEN: LEE KRASNER, ELAINE DE KOONING, GRACE HARTIGAN, JOAN MITCHELL, AND HELEN FRANKENTHALER: FIVE PAINTERS AND THE MOVEMENT THAT CHANGED MODERN ART’ By Mary Gabriel (Little, Brown and Company). The story of New York’s postwar art world has been told many times over, but by wresting the perspective from the boozy, macho brawlers who tended to fixate on themselves and one another, Gabriel has found a way to newly illuminate the milieu and upend its clichés. Her book is supremely gratifying, generous and lush but also tough and precise — in other words, as complicated and capacious as the lives it depicts. (Read the review.)‘AMITY AND PROSPERITY: ONE FAMILY AND THE FRACTURING OF AMERICA’ By Eliza Griswold (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Over the course of seven years, Griswold paid close attention to a community in southwestern Pennsylvania to convey its confounding experience with fracking, which included environmental degradation, mounting health problems and the kind of accumulating frustrations that eroded trust in government bit by bit. Some families suffered while others thrived; what Griswold depicts is a community, like the earth, cracked open. (Read the review.)‘PATRIOT NUMBER ONE: AMERICAN DREAMS IN CHINATOWN’ By Lauren Hilgers (Crown). Writing about a Chinese activist and immigrant named Zhuang Liehong, Hilgers offers a penetrating profile of a man and much more besides: an indelible portrait of his wife and their marriage; a canny depiction of Flushing, Queens; a lucid anatomy of Chinese politics and America’s immigration system. The resulting narrative is rich and absorbing — as evocative and engrossing as a novel. (Read the review.)‘INSEPARABLE: THE ORIGINAL SIAMESE TWINS AND THEIR RENDEZVOUS WITH AMERICAN HISTORY’ By Yunte Huang (Liveright). After years of showcased servitude, the original “Siamese twins” Chang and Eng Bunker settled down in small-town North Carolina and adopted the lives of 19th-century Southern gentry — identifying with the white oppressor class, in other words, fathering at least 21 children between them, owning slaves and sending their sons to fight for the Confederacy. Huang is attuned to the ironies of their story in his incisive and riveting account. (Read the review.)‘HEAVY: AN AMERICAN MEMOIR’ By Kiese Laymon (Scribner). In this generous, searching memoir, Laymon reckons with more than one kind of heaviness — his physical weight along with the burden of the past. You can see Laymon working through his ambivalence within the space of a sentence; he is relentlessly self-aware, exploring all the forces that can stop even the most buoyant hopes from ever leaving the ground. (Read the review.)‘CRASHED: HOW A DECADE OF FINANCIAL CRISES CHANGED THE WORLD’ By Adam Tooze (Viking). There have been a number of books written about the 2008 financial crisis, but few more elegant and astute than this one. Tooze shows how the upheaval radiated outward, shaping not only the new economic order but also the political free-for-all that scrambled traditional allegiances, both here and abroad. (Read the review.)[ Read: Janet Maslin’s favorite books of 2018 ]Dwight Garner is a Times book critic. He was also, for many years, an editor for the Book Review. His essays and criticism have also appeared in The New Republic, Harper’s, Slate and elsewhere.  @DwightGarner Advertisement