AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiThe Criterion Collection unveils its new streaming service. And a documentary on a former drug dealer debuts on Starz.COLUMBIA NOIR Stream on Criterion Channel. Fans of art-house films and classic movies lamented the end of Filmstruck in November. Now they can turn to this new streaming service, featuring more than 1,000 movies from the libraries of the Criterion Collection and Janus Films and a rotating selection from major and independent studios. It starts with a spotlight on 11 noir films from Columbia Pictures, including “Nightfall” by Jacques Tourneur, “The Big Heat” by Fritz Lang and “Pushover” by Richard Quine.QUEENS OF MYSTERY Stream on Acorn TV. This whimsical mini-series stars Olivia Vinall as Matilda Stone, a detective sergeant whose life has always been shrouded in mystery. When Matilda was 3, her mother disappeared, leaving her in the hands of her three crime-writing aunts, Beth (Sarah Woodward), Cat (Julie Graham) and Jane (Siobhan Redmond). She left her quiet hometown at 18 to become a cadet, and now she has returned for a new job. Her aunts are overjoyed to have her back — mostly because they want in on the action. While Matilda tries but fails to keep them out of her investigations, she uses her sleuthing skills to uncover the truth about her mother.WHITE BOY (2019) 9 p.m. on Starz. In 1987, Richard Wershe Jr., a 17-year-old Detroit drug dealer known as White Boy Rick, was arrested. He was eventually convicted and handed a life sentence in prison. Many have questioned the severity of his punishment, particularly because Wershe had been drawn into the criminal world as a police informant at 14 and had helped bring down a local criminal organization. (He’s currently in a Florida prison on racketeering charges and is scheduled to be released in 2020.) Reporters have followed his story over the years, and a drama was even in theaters last fall. The tale receives fresh scrutiny in this documentary, in which journalists, federal agents and others weigh in on Wershe’s sentence and question the role of the police.AMERICAN DAD! 10 p.m. on TBS. In this Season 13 finale, Stan (voiced by Seth MacFarlane) and Francine (Wendy Schaal) try to save their marriage but wind up trapped on a hot-air balloon. The rest of the family gets caught up in a jingle-writing contest.THOSE WHO CAN’T 10 p.m. on truTV. This scripted comedy series about a group of very unprofessional high school teachers wraps up its third season. The crew devises a plan to keep the school from shutting down while Quinn (Rory Scovel) and Tammy (Sonya Eddy) set out on a vision quest. Those who haven’t seen the show should know that it isn’t “for people who like their humor refined, subtle or family-friendly,” Neil Genzlinger wrote in his New York Times review. “It goes in big on gross-out humor, crass puns and general raunchiness.”Advertisement