AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Readers, welcome to the weekend! I wouldn’t recommend the trip to Brooklyn for Ivo van Hove’s sluggish, overstuffed staging of Janacek’s “Diary of One Who Disappeared” at BAM. I would, though, recommend listening to the piece, which I offer below in two versions, the original (for voices and solo piano) and a later, lusher orchestral arrangement (played gorgeously by the Berlin Philharmonic under Claudio Abbadio).And read Thomas May’s moving story on the composer George Walker, whose Sinfonia No. 5, “Visions” — his response to the 2015 shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church — has its first live performance in Seattle on April 11. (His hands on the piano are in the photo above.)I leave you with Anna Netrebko’s “Pace, pace” from the London “Forza del Destino” I was lucky enough to attend recently. Happy listening! ZACHARY WOOLFEThe Criterion Collection recently released a new restoration of Ingmar Bergman’s 1975 screen adaptation of “The Magic Flute” — a stylized and slightly bonkers Swedish-language take on Mozart’s opera.It’s a film as much about Bergman’s love of the opera as it is a film of the piece itself. The director sets it in a theater, presenting both his vision for a staging and the experience of putting on a performance. During the overture, you never see the orchestra; instead, the camera settles on the face of a young girl experiencing Mozart’s magical score for the first time. Then you see other faces: young, old, male, female, white, brown. This is music for everyone.Throughout the show, Bergman moves fluidly between onstage action and backstage humor. Papageno nearly misses his entrance because he is napping. He rolls out of his dressing room and runs to the wings, where is outfitted with his birdcage backpack and pan flute just in time to play the flute’s famous upward scale. During intermission, the Queen of the Night is seen smoking under a sign that says “Smoking strictly forbidden,” while the dragon walks awkwardly down the corridor and Tamino and Pamina play chess to pass time.This is nothing like the opera films of Franco Zeffirelli, which are lavishly literal-minded. It’s much stranger and smaller, and endlessly endearing. JOSHUA BARONEThe pianist Emanuel Ax played works by Brahms, Ravel and Chopin splendidly at his recent recital at Carnegie Hall. But I was especially stuck by his pairing of two seemingly disparate works, when he followed an alluring account of George Benjamin’s “Piano Figures” (2004) with Schumann’s “Fantasiestücke,” hardly taking a break between the two. In juxtaposing old and new works, an artist can call attention to resonances that bridge centuries. That’s what happened here. Mr. Benjamin’s 14-minute “Piano Figures” is a set of 10 elusive miniatures, each exploring a different element of music, like hypnotic repetitions in “Spell” or jagged tangles of counterpoint in the aptly titled “Knots.”Then Mr. Ax turned to Schumann’s fantastical set of eight pieces. Playing the two works side by side, Mr. Ax emphasized the wildness, even radicalism, of the Schumann and highlighted hints of mystical Romanticism in the Benjamin. He ended with a dazzling account of Chopin’s “Andante Spianato and Grande Polonaise Brillante,” another work he has played (and recorded) to acclaim. ANTHONY TOMMASINIAdvertisement