AdvertisementSupported byStreamingBy Glenn KennyWhen you hit Netflix’s search button, the usual genres appear, including “Action,” “Comedies,” “Documentaries,” “Dramas” and so on. You won’t see “Foreign Language” on the list; Netflix instead categorizes its foreign language films under “International.” I don’t know the reason for this distinction, but my first guess is that international sounds less intimidating.A good deal of the material in this section has an English-language dub soundtrack that kicks in by default. If you prefer the original language soundtrack with subtitles, as I and many of my fellow “Berlin Babylon” enthusiasts do, you can change that in options.The sheer amount of material may be the most impressive thing about the category. And for a mainstream platform like Netflix, international doesn’t mean art house. Although the best of the four films in that category I watched recently leans toward that.“Sunday’s Illness,” a drama written and directed by Ramón Salazar, got considerable praise on the festival circuit before Netflix acquired it. This Spanish picture about an aging socialite, Anabel (Susi Sánchez), who’s confronted by Chiara (Bárbara Lennie), the daughter she abandoned about 30 years before, when the girl was 8, is both a knotty character study and a dreamlike immersion into the almost tyrannical, gravitational pull of blood bonds.After Chiara makes her subtle but memorable re-entry into Anabel’s life (she shows up as a server at a catered event Anabel is hosting), she asks of her mother a single favor: to spend 10 days with her, in a house in a French forest just across the Spanish border — the house Anabel left when she abandoned Chiara. Old wounds are reopened and new understandings sought, but the movie avoids a pat conclusion.The often-tense mother-daughter dance of recrimination and forgiveness is spectacularly acted. (Ms. Lennie, who plays Chiara, is also one of the lead actors, along with Penélope Cruz and Javier Bardem, in “Everybody Knows,” the Asghar Farhadi film that played Cannes in May and opens in September.) “Sunday’s Illness” is beautifully shot by Ricardo de Gracia; each setting is imbued with an atmosphere that teems with specifics while infused with a hallucinogenic quality. It’s hardly light fare, but it’s a “real movie,” something many people mistakenly believe doesn’t exist within the Netflix Original category.“Us and Them,” a Chinese romantic drama that was a  box-office hit in May, also has a look that’s more cinematic than televisual. One reason is the way it depicts the glum present day in black and white and the happier past in color, a device famously used by Otto Preminger in his 1958 film, “Bonjour Tristesse.” The male protagonist of “Us and Them,” Jianqing (Jing Boran) achieves fame with a video game portraying two lovers, Kelly and Ian, and a world that turns black and white when Ian can’t find his girl.“Us and Them” depicts a decade’s worth of Chinese New Year journeys through the eyes of Jianqing and Xiaoxiao (Zhou Dongyu), former lovers who went their separate ways and meet on a plane many years later; once the flight is canceled, they’re thrown together in a hotel to reminisce about the past.As is not uncommon in censor-approved Chinese pictures, a strong theme here is that while it’s sad to leave the family hearth of your province to become a Beijing-based mover and shaker, it’s the right thing to do.In most respects, “Us and Them” is an orthodox and respectably effective tear-jerker. But certain touches in the movie, the first feature directed by the Taiwanese actress Rene Liu, provide interesting perspectives on conventional heterosexual romance in China. When they first meet, Jianqing and Xiaoxiao are in an “ant tribe” of young people making a living vending gray-market goods while also hustling for their big breaks. Jianqing meets a fellow with a lot of pinups in his room, and the two enthusiastically trade the names of their favorite Japanese pornography actresses. Xiaoxiao smiles all the while as if it’s the cutest thing she’s ever heard. O.K. then.The French Netflix Original “To Each, Her Own,” directed by Myriam Aziza from a script she wrote with Denyse Rodriguez-Tomé, doesn’t lack for fraught situations. Simone (Sarah Stern) has been living with her girlfriend, Claire, for three years but hasn’t come out to her Orthodox Jewish parents. One of her brothers is gay; the other runs a Jewish dating service called MazelLov.com and sets Sarah up on a date. But she persuades a female non-Jewish co-worker to stand in for her. Then she begins to fall hard for Wali (Jean-Christophe Folly), a Senegalese chef who happens to be a man. Simone’s a banker, and Wali wants not just her love, but also her help in opening a restaurant. In addition to the easy-to-predict snags you might imagine resulting from this scenario, there’s the fact that much of Wali’s crew is anti-Semitic.The movie maintains a light tone, bolstered by sunny albeit flat visuals, despite all of the provocative thematic threads. The movie insists on a breezy optimism that skirts glibness, then doubles down on it with a having-it-all finale that’s as ridiculous as it is nervy.Finally, “Lo Más Sencillo es Complicarlo Todo” (“The Simplest Thing Is to Complicate Everything”) is a goofy Mexican teen romance in which an egotistic, movie-mad 17-year-old, Renata (Danna Paola), sets out to squelch the engagement of her adored Leonardo, her older brother’s best friend that she’s been crushing on forever.The Mexico here is one you never see in United States-made movies, or hear about in populist politicians’ speeches — no one gets kidnapped, or smuggles drugs or any of that sort of thing. It’s bright, cheerful, affluent; any of the characters in the American Netflix Original “The Kissing Booth” would thrive there as an exchange student. Or maybe not. A good portion of the plot hinges on the strict enforcement of the drinking age in Puerto Vallarta nightclubs, inhibiting Renata and her pal from following Leonardo around.The most watchable portions of this fluff ball are the downright weird movie tributes, including a “Saturday Night Fever” parody in which Ms. Paola herself sings “If I Can’t Have You,” and does a credible job of it, and a surprising bit of business paying homage to “Gilda.” It’s soothing to know that at least these Mexican kids today have some regard for the classics. Or at least that this film’s director, Rene Bueno, would like us to think so.Advertisement