AdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer VineyardWatching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our twice-weekly newsletter here.April is the cruelest month, save for when it comes to streaming selections. (And as an April bonus, we have an extra recommendation for you: Jordan Peele’s reboot of “The Twilight Zone” on CBS All Access. The first two episodes will be available April 1.) Below are the most interesting of what we’ve found among the new TV series and movies coming to the major streaming services this month, plus a roundup of all the best new titles in all genres. (Streaming services occasionally change schedules without giving notice.) ‘Chilling Adventures of Sabrina’ Part 2 Starts streaming: April 5When we last left Sabrina, she signed her name in the Book of the Beast. Now what? As we enter Season 2 — or Part 2, as Netflix likes to call it; or Phase 2, as the Dark Lord himself might dub his diabolic plan for our favorite teenage witch — Sabrina is starting to raise a little hell. Her devotion to the Dark Lord and her aptitude for magic itself are both put to the test when she confronts the inherent misogyny of the witch world. (Why is everything tipped in favor of the warlocks?) There are some clever horror in-jokes this season, and some spot-on guest stars familiar to the genre (Veronica Cartwright, Ray Wise). So tune in for more ominous intrigue, sexy interludes with the studly Nick Scratch and some facetime with Satan himself. Let the half-breed ascend!‘Our Planet’ Season 1 Starts streaming: April 5There is something beautifully soothing — and tragic, too — about the remarkable imagery on display in this globe-spanning wildlife series, which captures rare animals in their remote habitats. Thousands of pink flamingos, for example, take over a newly formed lake in an African salt pan after a torrential rain, a place where they can breed safely, away from predators. It’s a delight to see the flamingo chicks learning to walk out of there — until the focus shifts to the one that can’t keep up because the salt has solidified around its tiny limbs like crusty leg warmers. The narrator David Attenborough’s voice is warmly reassuring, even when telling us that wildlife populations are in decline. “For the first time in human history,” he says, “the stability of nature can no longer be taken for granted.” Here’s a chance to see it while you can.‘Someone Great’ Starts streaming: April 19This sweet, funny movie raises an unavoidable question for the writer-director Jennifer Kaytin Robinson: Why would present-day New York music journalist Jenny (Gina Rodriguez) want to move to San Francisco to work for Rolling Stone, when Rolling Stone hasn’t been headquartered in San Francisco for more than 40 years? If you can set that aside, the rest of Jenny’s story might draw you in. The move to the West Coast brings a breakup with her boyfriend Nate (Lakeith Stanfield), and a heartbroken Jenny and her two BFFs (DeWanda Wise, Brittany Snow) decide to commiserate by spending the day (and night) playing hooky, getting high, and generally not acting their age. This is a celebration of female friendship and a bittersweet contemplation of receding youth, as Jenny is compelled to say goodbye to New York, goodbye to her twenties and of course, goodbye to Nate, with his limpid, soulful eyes.‘Chambers’ Starts streaming: April 26Two grieving parents (Uma Thurman, Tony Goldwyn) track down the teenage girl who was the recipient of their deceased daughter’s heart and begin generously giving her more things — fine clothes, a car, a full scholarship to a pricey private school. But the girl, Sasha (actress Sivan Alyra Rose), is a little weirded out by the parents’ unsolicited beneficence. And as she becomes further enmeshed in the life her young donor left behind, strange things begin happening. She becomes ambidextrous. She hears The Stone Roses playing when the radio’s not on. She has sudden violent impulses. Set against a Southwestern landscape, this horror series is disturbing, addictive and moody.Also arriving: “All the President’s Men” (April 1), “Bonnie and Clyde” (April 1), “Deliverance” (April 1), “The Fifth Element” (April 1), “The Golden Compass” (April 1), “I Am Legend” (April 1), “Pineapple Express” (April 1), “P.S. I Love You” (April 1), “Snatch” (April 1), “Kevin Hart: Irresponsible” (April 2), “New Girl” Season 7 (April 10), “You vs. Wild” (April 10), “The Perfect Date” (April 12), “The Silence” (April 12), “I Think You Should Leave with Tim Robinson” Season 1 (April 23), “The Hateful Eight” (April 25), “American Honey” (April 27), “The Imitation Game” (April 29) and “Anthony Jeselnik: Fire in the Maternity Ward” (April 30).‘The Tick’ Season 2 Starts streaming: April 5Last season’s nemesis, The Terror, has been rooted out and our unlikely blue do-gooder The Tick is back for another round of hyper-stylized superhero satire. This time he’s tackling government lies, human trafficking and other things of a murder-y nature. The Tick is so busy that his sidekick, Arthur, however, is having serious trouble keeping up. Arthur has poor danger reflexes, secret identity issues and a new nemesis called Lobstercules. There are also other heroes on hand (for team-ups) and several new villains. Haven’t seen Season 1, you say? No problem — this second outing is super easy to follow.Also arriving: “The Addams Family” (April 1), “Beetlejuice” (April 1), “Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure” (April 1), “Blade” (April 1), “Chinatown” (April 1), “Days of Thunder” (April 1), “Everything Must Go” (April 1), “In a World … ” (April 1), “Interview with the Vampire” (April 1), “The Minus Man” (April 1), “Murder She Wrote” Seasons 1-5 (April 1), “The Perfect Storm” (April 1), “Primal Fear” (April 1), “The Shawshank Redemption” (April 1), “Six Degrees of Separation” (April 1), “Stories We Tell” (April 1), “Top Gun” (April 1), “Up in the Air” (April 1), “A Quiet Place” (April 2), “Bosch” Season 5 (April 19), “Humans” Season 3 (April 25), “The Hole in the Ground” (April 27) and “Waiting for ‘Superman’” (April 29).‘Wyatt Cenac’s Problem Areas’ Season 2 Premiere Starts streaming: April 5The new season of Wyatt Cenac’s docu-series focuses on the American education system and why it seems so broken. (And with the recent admissions scandals, he drolly notes, even bribing your child’s way into an education appears to be broken, too.) Cenac talks to students, educators, historians and others about issues like school unionization, the undervaluing of teachers and the school-to-prison pipeline. The series isn’t all hard slogging, though; Cenac also explores things like goat yoga classes, which can only be called amusing.‘Native Son’ Starts streaming: April 6Richard Wright’s celebrated 1940 novel receives its third screen adaptation by the artist and first-time director Rashid Johnson. Wright’s story has been updated (by the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Suzan-Lori Parks), but his protagonist Bigger Thomas (Ashton Sanders, so good in “Moonlight”), is still a young black man trapped in a world rigged against him. Bigger rejects the gangster lifestyle offered by a friend and thinks he’s found a way out of poverty in the South Side of Chicago when he gets a job as a driver for a wealthy businessman, Henry Dalton (Bill Camp). But his dreams of self-improvement are doomed by his interactions with Dalton’s “woke” daughter Mary (Margaret Qualley), who is enamored by what she thinks Bigger represents. The movie isn’t a masterpiece, but it has much to admire: striking visual compositions, Sanders’s nuanced performance and a tense atmosphere which suggests much more than is said here.‘Game of Thrones’ Season 8 Premiere Starts streaming: April 14Some say Westeros will end in fire, some say in ice. One thing is for sure: “Game of Thrones” is ending this year. Yes, very, very sadly, our time with the secret prince, the dragon queen, the fiery witch, the tree-wizard and countless other characters is coming to a close (like the lives of so many other characters we’ve long missed). Will the living triumph over the army of the dead? Or will the Night King kill them all, and leave the world an icy hell? Oh, we (sob) can’t go on …[Rewatch “Game of Thrones” with us. Sign up to get our guides to the first seven seasons straight to your inbox.]‘Gentleman Jack’ Season 1 Premiere Starts streaming: April 22It’s 1832 in Halifax, West Yorkshire, England, and Anne Lister is determined to do whatever she very well pleases with her life. Driving a stagecoach, for example, or mercy-killing a horse — or dressing in masculine clothing and sleeping with women. Possibly even marrying one! Lister, a real-life historical figure, is widely considered to be the first modern lesbian, and this Anglo-American series, created by Sally Wainwright (“Happy Valley”) is miles away from the standard stuffy period drama, focusing, as it does, on the ways that its protagonist disrupted the conventions of her time. As played by Suranne Jones, Lister is charming and brilliant, dazzling others even when she’s not in the room, much to the consternation of her overlooked sister (Gemma Whelan). Scandalously good fun, this show.Also arriving: “A Time to Kill” (April 1), “A Walk in the Clouds” (April 1), “Annie Hall” (April 1), “Hannah and Her Sisters” (April 1), “I Am Sam” (April 1), “Manhattan” (April 1), “Mean Girls” (April 1), “Repo Men” (April 1), “Splice” (April 1), “Suffragette” (April 1), “Veronica Mars” (April 1), “Waking Ned Devine” (April 1), “Crazy Rich Asians” (April 13), “BlacKkKlansman” (April 20), “2019 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony” (April 27) and “On Tour with Asperger’s Are Us” Premiere (April 30). ‘Ramy’ Season 1 Starts streaming: April 19Ramy Hassan is going to die alone. Well, that’s what everybody keeps telling him. Ramy’s mother wants him to try picking up women at their local mosque in New Jersey, while one of his friends informs him that he’s running out of options (“There are only two hot Muslim girls left in town”). So naturally, Ramy is dating a Jewish woman. Ramy Youssef, the show’s star and creator, loosely based this half-hour comedy series on his own experiences as a first-generation Egyptian-American, and the humor comes from a very specific place. Balancing a spiritual life with a love life is both a serious issue and, as it turns out, a very funny one.Also arriving: “The Addams Family” (April 1), “Akeelah and the Bee” (April 1), “Barton Fink” (April 1), “Blow” (April 1), “Cold Mountain” (April 1), “Days of Thunder” (April 1), “Eastern Promises” (April 1), “Everything Must Go” (April 1), “Happy Feet” (April 1), “In a World …” (April 1), “The Jerk” (April 1), “The Minus Man” (April 1), “Practical Magic” (April 1), “Primal Fear” (April 1), “The Seven Year Itch” (April 1), “The Shining” (April 1), “Six Degrees of Separation” (April 1), “Stories We Tell” (April 1), “Sunshine Cleaning” (April 1), “The Time Traveler’s Wife” (April 1), “Up in the Air” (April 1), “A Quiet Place” (April 2), “Destroyer” (April 9), “Enchanted April” (April 15) and “Waiting for ‘Superman’” (April 29).An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of Lakeith Stanfield’s character in “Someone Great.” The character is Nate, not Nick.Advertisement