AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.AUSTRALIAN CHAMBER ORCHESTRA at the Rose Theater (April 9, 7:30 p.m.). This fine, exuberant ensemble is led from the violin by Richard Tognetti, who also made two of the arrangements on this program, namely the first four fugues from Bach’s “The Art of Fugue,” and Beethoven’s mammoth Op. 130 quartet, with “Grosse Fuge” as its ending. Also on the bill is Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 12, with Inon Barnatan at the keyboard. 212-721-6500, lincolncenter.orgBUDAPEST FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (April 5-6, 8 p.m.). One of the best orchestras in the world brings a pair of avowedly Hungarian programs to New York, under the ceaselessly interesting baton of Ivan Fischer. On Friday, Bartok’s Concerto for Orchestra and the suite from “The Miraculous Mandarin” are put in the context of the composer’s rarely heard choral music, performed by the Cantemus Choir, directed by Denes Szabo. On Saturday, there’s more Bartok, with a focus on the folk music that so inspired him, to be sung by Marta Sebestyen, before his chilling “Bluebeard’s Castle.” Ildiko Komlosi and Krisztian Cser are the singers for that one-act opera. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgMIRANDA CUCKSON AND CONOR HANICK at Bargemusic (April 5, 7 p.m.). Bargemusic opens its spring season with this commanding duo and a heavyweight program as part of the floating concert hall’s Here and Now new-music series. Cuckson plays a solo viola work by Olga Neuwirth and a solo violin work by Franco Donatoni; she is joined by Hanick, at the piano, for music by Georg Friedrich Haas and Gyorgy Kurtag. 800-838-3006, bargemusic.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (April 11, 7:30 p.m.; through April 13). Just the one work on this week’s subscription program at the Philharmonic, but a mighty one: Mahler’s Symphony No. 6. Jaap van Zweden conducts. 212-875-5656, nyphil.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]MAURIZIO POLLINI at Carnegie Hall (April 7, 2 p.m.). Pollini had to cancel a recent, scheduled appearance with the New York Philharmonic, so keep everything crossed that this most eminent of pianists can make it this time. He plays Chopin and Schumann, as he does so often, but there’s also something of a novelty for these fingers: the Brahms Op. 117 Intermezzos, late music of unbearable poignancy. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgMARIANNE SCHROEDER at St. Peter’s Episcopal Church (April 5, 8 p.m.). The frequently violent, ferociously spiritual music of Galina Ustvolskaya makes up the entirety of this solo piano program, performed by a noted advocate of the composer’s work. Schroeder plays all six piano sonatas, uninterrupted, as well as the 12 preludes.blankforms.orgSPEKTRAL QUARTET at the Central Library of the Brooklyn Public Library (April 7, 4 p.m.). Opportunities to hear this outstanding Chicago-based foursome in New York are all too rare, so take advantage if you can of this free concert, which is part of Carnegie Hall’s Citywide series. As adept in contemporary music as in the classics, they will play quartets by Mozart and Beethoven, as well as music by Elliott Carter and Hans Thomalla.718-230-2200, bklynlibrary.org/bplpresentsAdvertisement