AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.DONALD BERMAN at Bargemusic (May 25, 8 p.m.). Brooklyn’s floating concert hall always comes into its own as the days end a little bit later, and the sun shines on the downtown skyline a little bit longer. Catch the view while concentrating on this typically eclectic concert from a fine pianist, who plays music by Bach, Ives, Eric Moe and John Aylward, and notably debuts a piece by Elena Ruehr.800-838-3006, bargemusic.orgEKMELES at St. Peter’s Episcopal Church (May 26, 8 p.m.). Music for six voices and electronics from this outstanding ensemble, in the shape of “End Words,” a new work by Christopher Trapani, and Karlheinz Stockhausen’s microtonal masterpiece from 1968, “Stimmung.”ekmeles.comINTERNATIONAL CONTEMPORARY ENSEMBLE at National Sawdust (May 27, 4 p.m.). A composer portrait here for Anna Thorvaldsdottir, a rapidly rising composer whose music always seems to have a sense of place and personality. Cory Smythe is the pianist for three solo works, “[One],” “Scape” and “Trajectories,” which also uses high-definition video; and Steven Schick conducts “Aequilibria,” a piece for a small ensemble.646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.orgLOCRIAN CHAMBER PLAYERS at Riverside Church (May 31, 8 p.m.). Among the most endearing endeavors in the New York new-music scene is this group’s continuing series of concerts on the 10th floor of the Riverside Church tower, complete with views of the Hudson. The music is only ever from the past decade: Here, there are pieces by Steven Mackey, Hanspeter Kyburz, Julie Hill, Claude Baker and Saad Haddad.locrian.orgMET ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (May 30, 8 p.m.). Straight-down-the-line programming from the players of the Metropolitan Opera’s house band, led this week by Gianandrea Noseda, a conductor capable of drawing engaged playing from any orchestra. Mahler’s Symphony No. 5 is the main event; before that, James Ehnes, a cultivated violinist, is featured in Mozart’s Violin Concerto No. 5.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine (May 28, 8 p.m.). In the absence of a music director, the Philharmonic will be conducted by David Robertson for its annual uptown Memorial Day concert. Kent Tritle is the soloist in Saint-Saëns’s Symphony No. 3, the famed “Organ,” which is prefaced by Vaughan Williams’s “Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis.” Tickets are free and will be given out after 6 p.m. Join the line early, or, if the weather is nice, take a rug and watch the live broadcast on Pulpit Green.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgAdvertisement