AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.THE CACTUS BLOSSOMS at Bowery Ballroom (April 11, 8 p.m.). Because of their tightly woven harmonies and rockabilly influences, this band of brothers from Minneapolis has racked up comparisons to two of music’s most celebrated siblings: the Everlys. This year, the group, comprising Page Burkum and Jack Torrey, released “Easy Way,” a record that ever-so-slightly mussed up the clean-cut sound of their 2016 label debut, but maintained a sunny outlook and retro coziness. One highlight, “Got a Lotta Love,” was written with Dan Auerbach from the Black Keys. With its heart-on-its-sleeve lyrics, it illustrates their songwriting strategy. As Torrey told Rolling Stone, singing about love is “more attractive than singing about divisive subjects.”212-260-4700, mercuryeastpresents.comELLA VOS at Brooklyn Steel (April 10, 8 p.m.). Many women’s careers are hindered by pregnancy; this pop singer’s was propelled by it. Her best-known song, the moody, R&B-tinged track “White Noise,” centers on her experience with postpartum depression, and she has said that becoming pregnant is what gave her the courage to pursue music in the first place. The anonymity granted by Vos’s stage name (her chosen moniker roughly translates from Spanish to “she you”) further boosts her confidence, empowering her to tackle difficult material in her songs. “You Don’t Know About Me,” from her debut album, addresses women’s lack of bodily agency, and “Empty Hands,” from an EP released in January, documents the cancer treatment she recently underwent.888-929-7849, bowerypresents.comHAND HABITS at Bowery Ballroom (April 10, 8 p.m.). Meg Duffy, the songwriter behind this indie-rock project, is a musician’s musician. A product of New York’s Hudson Valley D.I.Y. community, Duffy gained a reputation in Los Angeles for shredding on demand as a go-to session guitarist and a member of Kevin Morby’s touring band. Duffy’s solo work is more restrained and reflective, as evinced on Hand Habits’ recent sophomore album, “Placeholder,” which features a softened guitar tone and raw lyrics about anxiety. After supporting Japanese Breakfast at two New York shows in January, Hand Habits return as a headliner.212-260-4700, mercuryeastpresents.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]HONEY DIJON at 99 Scott (April 5, 11 p.m.). “House music for me was never just about tracks,” this D.J., transgender activist and fashion darling told Vice. “It was really about creating something that was too black, too queer and too gay.” Coming of age in Chicago during the heyday of house, Honey Dijon was mentored by Derrick Carter, a pioneer of the genre. Her own style grew to be more eclectic, drawing on techno and sampling soul and pop hits, but it honors her house roots. As a performer, she strives to foster human connection through sound, channeling the sense of liberation she found in her own formative musical experiences, like sneaking into Chicago nightclubs as a teenager. tixr.comSOUNDTRACK OF AMERICA at the Shed (April 5 and 7, 8 p.m.; April 9, 8:30 p.m.; through April 14). For its opening, this flashy new interdisciplinary arts space — a cultural counterweight to the surrounding commercial development in Hudson Yards — will host five nights of concerts honoring the influence of African-American musicians. Developed by the filmmaker Steve McQueen, the series aims to explore the story of black music in America from early spirituals to today’s diverse forms. To that end, the performances in the coming week feature artists such as the jazz pianist and bandleader Jon Batiste, the rappers Smino and Rapsody, the avant-pop cellist Kelsey Lu and the R&B singer Emily King.646-455-3494, theshed.orgY LA BAMBA AND HABIBI at BRIC House Ballroom (April 11, 8 p.m.). Luz Elena Mendoza’s Mexican heritage has long informed her songwriting: As the frontwoman of Y La Bamba, she sings in both Spanish and English, taking cues from traditional musica mexicana as well as American folk songs and dream pop. Her band’s most recent album, “Mujeres,” grapples with what it means to be Mexican in the current political climate, and with the machismo entrenched in Mexican society. At this Brooklyn arts center, Y La Bamba share a bill with Habibi, another group for whom multicultural identity is a central concern. Their “Cardamom Garden” EP from last year was recorded partly in Farsi, celebrating their lead singer’s Iranian roots, and cultivated a distinctly American surf-rock vibe.718-683-5600, bricartsmedia.orgOLIVIA HORNMICHAËL ATTIAS at Greenwich House Music School (April 6, 7:30 p.m.). On Friday, Attias will release “Échos la Nuit,” an album of slow, ruminative solo recordings on which he plays both the alto saxophone (his primary instrument) and the piano. Hearing these 12 tracks is like inspecting the mysterious line drawings of a beloved artist. Sometimes you’ll almost discern the contour of a landscape or the dark shading of a limb, but ultimately the shapes all drift back into a desolate, spacious abstraction. At Greenwich House, Attias will perform solo and in a quartet.212-242-4770, greenwichhouse.orgAMIR ELSAFFAR AND TWO RIVERS WITH HAMID AL-SAADI at Pioneer Works (April 8, 7 p.m.). ElSaffar, a lauded Iraqi-American trumpeter, leads bands mostly comprising jazz musicians, but he gets them to use the trundling rhythms and maqam-based melodies of Middle Eastern music, rather than the typical tools of contemporary jazz. Recently he has been performing with Al-Saadi, a singer and scholar of traditional maqam. Here Al-Saadi will join ElSaffar’s sextet, Two Rivers.pioneerworks.orgJONATHAN FINLAYSON at the Stone (April 10-13, 8:30 p.m.). Last year, Finlayson, a young trumpeter with an appetite for tangled rhythm and lithe, fugacious melody, released a compelling album, “3 Times Round,” with his sextet. In the coming week at the Stone, across four evenings, he gathers a different band each night: On Wednesday and Thursday, there are trios (featuring the bassist Mark Helias and the drummer Tom Rainey on the first night, then the saxophonist Brian Settles and the drummer Chad Taylor on the second). On April 12, he presents a quintet that includes the alto saxophone phenom Immanuel Wilkins, and on April 13, he closes the run with a septet, playing a new suite of music called “The Odyssey of Big Boy.”thestonenyc.comSULLIVAN FORTNER TRIO at the Village Vanguard (through April 7, 8:30 and 10:30 p.m.). Fortner is just 32, but the New Orleans-born pianist — who’s often clad in a loose smoking jacket and fedora — carries himself with the wizened, avuncular comportment of a jazz elder. When he sits down at the piano, though, youthful energy comes spilling off him like sweat from an athlete’s back. He plays bracing, mile-a-minute postbop, often tangling up his arpeggios and using both hands to create layers of rhythm. At the Vanguard he is joined by Ameen Saleem on bass and Jeremy Clemons on drums; the group will likely draw some repertoire from Fortner’s most recent release, “Moments Preserved.”212-255-4037, villagevanguard.comOLIVER LAKE at Roulette (April 5, 8 p.m.). An avant-garde alto saxophonist and multimedia artist, Lake has been at the top of his class since the early 1970s, when he arrived in New York from St. Louis, where he had helped establish the influential Black Artists Group. In 1976 he and three other saxophonists formed the World Saxophone Quartet, an all-sax combo that became one of the most successful, if unorthodox, jazz groups of the following decade. At Roulette, he presents Alto Madness, a similar ensemble featuring three fellow alto saxophonists — Bruce Williams, Darius Jones and Michaël Attias — as well as the drummer Pheeroan AkLaff. The band will play “Tone Poem for J. A. H.,” a piece Lake originally wrote 12 years ago for the World Saxophone Quartet.917-267-0368, roulette.org‘A TRIBUTE TO DAVE VALENTIN’ at the Hostos Center for the Arts and Culture (April 6, 7:30 p.m.). Valentin, a Grammy-winning flutist and a fixture of New York’s salsa and Latin jazz scenes, died in 2017 at 64, cutting short a career that encompassed the release of almost two dozen of his own albums, as well as stints with McCoy Tyner’s Latin All-Stars and Tito Puente’s Golden Latin Jazz All-Stars. The pianist Bill O’Connell was the musical director of Valentin’s final band, and here he presents an hommage to his former boss, playing songs from Valentin’s repertoire with a quintet that includes the flutist Andrea Brachfeld. After an intermission, O’Connell will retake the stage with a new 10-piece group, Bill O’Connell’s Afro-Caribbean Ensemble, featuring the master percussionist Roman Díaz. 718-518-4455, hostos.cuny.edu/cultureartsMCCOY TYNER AND CHARLES MCPHERSON WITH THE JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER ORCHESTRA at the Rose Theater (April 5-6, 8 p.m.). Two jazz giants, Tyner and McPherson will celebrate their 80th birthdays together in a performance with Wynton Marsalis’s Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra. (Tyner reached the milestone late last year; McPherson will turn 80 in July.) The large ensemble will play Tyner’s and McPherson’s compositions, which have been newly arranged for orchestra by members of the group.212-721-6500, jazz.orgGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOAdvertisement