AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.JEAN-EFFLAM BAVOUZET at the Kaye Playhouse (July 18, 8 p.m.). Although this French pianist has been a notable, if understated, success on record with his sets of Debussy and Haydn, he does not appear in New York all that often. Performing as part of the International Keyboard Institute and Festival, he plays Schumann’s “Faschingsschwank aus Wien” and Piano Sonata No. 3, as well as Debussy, including several of the études.212-772-4448, ikif.orgBOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. (July 13, 14 and 16, 8 p.m.; July 15, 2:30 p.m.). Make a very long weekend of your trip to the Berkshires with three Boston Symphony concerts and, as a postlude on Monday, an evening with the young players of the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra. On Friday, Moritz Gnann leads Wagner, Schumann and Mozart, with the pianist Paul Lewis. On Saturday, Andris Nelsons conducts a semi-staged account of Puccini’s “La Bohème,” with Jonathan Tetelman as Rodolfo and Kristine Opolais as Mimì. Sunday afternoon sees Mr. Nelsons back on the podium for Mendelssohn, Bernstein and a Beethoven concerto with Yuja Wang. And on Monday, the venerable Herbert Blomstedt is joined by young conductors in a program of Mozart, Beethoven and Brahms.888-266-1200, bso.orgCHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER at Alice Tully Hall (July 15, 5 p.m.). The last of the Chamber Music Society’s three summer programs features Mozart’s Flute Quartet, K. 285b; Weber’s Flute Trio; and Schubert’s Piano Trio No. 1. The players are drawn from a team of five that includes the violinist Erin Keefe and the pianist Orion Weiss.212-875-5788, chambermusicsociety.orgTHE KNIGHTS at the Naumburg Bandshell (July 17, 7:30 p.m.). The Knights are the latest excellent chamber orchestra to appear in Central Park, following the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra and A Far Cry. The Brooklyn collective, conducted by Eric Jacobsen, plays a suite of Armenian folk songs by Komitas, Janacek’s “Idyll,” a handful of Brahms’s “Hungarian Dances” and Anna Clyne’s “Within Her Arms.” As ever, the concert is free.212-501-7809, naumburgconcerts.orgMOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA at David Geffen Hall (July 17-18, 7:30 p.m.). Classical concerts at Mostly Mozart kick off with two performances of Bernstein’s “Mass,” an immense, careening, overflowing work teeming with different musical styles. Louis Langrée conducts a cast that includes Nmon Ford as the Celebrant, as well as the Concert Chorale of New York and the Young People’s Chorus of New York City. Elkhanah Pulitzer directs.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalNATIONAL YOUTH ORCHESTRA OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA at Carnegie Hall (July 19, 7:30 p.m.). Michael Tilson Thomas is the conductor of the National Youth Orchestra this year, leading this teenage ensemble in one New York concert before its tour of the Far East. The main work on the program is Sibelius’s Symphony No. 2, which follows Gershwin’s Piano Concerto and the premiere of Ted Hearne’s “Brass Tacks.” Jean-Yves Thibaudet is the soloist.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgAdvertisement