AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.CALIDORE STRING QUARTET at Town Hall (Feb. 17, 2 p.m.). What a fine series the bargain-basement Peoples’ Symphony has put together this season, particularly in terms of leading pianists and string quartets. And this foursome is certainly among them. Recipients of the Avery Fisher Career Grant last year, they will play recent quartets by Hannah Lash and Caroline Shaw alongside Haydn’s Quartet in F (Op. 77, No. 2) and Beethoven’s Quartet in C sharp minor (Op. 131).212-586-4680, pscny.orgTHE CHOIR OF TRINITY WALL STREET at St. Paul’s Chapel (Feb. 15, 7:30 p.m.). Julian Wachner leads his own contribution to Trinity’s Mass Reimaginings project, the “Epistle Mass,” as well as the East Coast premiere of Nico Muhly’s “The Faire Starre” and the New York premiere of Daniel Schlosberg’s “Nightingale+Rose.” As ever with Trinity’s performances, admission is free.212-602-0800, trinitywallstreet.orgDARMSTADT at Le Poisson Rouge (Feb. 20, 8 p.m.). This will be the 15th annual performance by this Brooklyn group of Terry Riley’s “In C,” that classic early statement of Minimalism. Among the notable performers this year are Gelsey Bell and Joan La Barbara.lpr.comMARCO FUSI AND THE KUKURUZ QUARTET at the Italian Academy (Feb. 20, 7 p.m.). This quartet — pianos, not strings — is joined by a leading new-music violinist for a sprawling, free program that culminates with another contribution to the Julius Eastman revival, a performance of his “Gay Guerrilla.” Before that, there is music by Salvatore Sciarrino, Giacinto Scelsi, John Cage and Marcel Zaes.212-854-2306, italianacademy.columbia.edu[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]WANG LU at Miller Theater (Feb. 21, 8 p.m.). This Chinese-born composer benefits from the first of Miller’s spring composer portraits, and from the advocacy of the new-music royalty on hand to perform her pieces: the International Contemporary Ensemble and Yarn/Wire. There’s one world premiere, “A-PPA-Aratus,” as well as “Childhood Amnesia,” “Rates of Extinction,” “Urban Inventory” and “Siren Song.”212-854-7799, millertheatre.comNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Feb. 21, 7:30 p.m.; through Feb. 23). Matthias Pintscher leads the Philharmonic this week, and the conductor-composer brings along one of his own works, the violin concerto “Mar’eh,” in which Renaud Capuçon is the soloist. Also on the bill are Ravel’s “Alborada del gracioso” and Stravinsky’s “The Firebird,” performed in its entirety. After the concert on Feb. 23, Pintscher curates a Nightcap concert in the Kaplan Penthouse, with Nadia Sirota as the host.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgRUSSIAN NATIONAL ORCHESTRA at David Geffen Hall (Feb. 20, 8 p.m.). Nothing more imaginative than an all-Rachmaninoff program is on offer here, but from an orchestra with a unique sound and personality. Kirill Karabits conducts the “Symphonic Dances” and the Piano Concerto No. 2; Mikhail Pletnev is the soloist.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/great-performersJORDI SAVALL AND LE CONCERT DES NATIONS at Zankel Hall (Feb. 21, 7:30 p.m.). Savall and his endlessly inventive Baroque ensemble return to music they performed on the soundtrack for the film “Tous les Matins du Monde,” which starred Gérard Depardieu as the composer Marin Marais. Expect works by Marais, Lully, Sainte-Colombe, Couperin, Rameau and LeClair.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgAdvertisement