AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnThe 2011 thriller “Hanna” is reimagined as an Amazon web series. And Woody Harrelson and Kevin Costner star in “The Highwaymen” on Netflix.HANNA Stream on Amazon. How would a person act if he or she had been raised outside of society? The question has been considered in works like the Austrian playwright Peter Handke’s drama “Kaspar,” about a 19th-century German who claimed to have grown up without any human contact, and “Captain Fantastic,” the 2016 feature that cast Viggo Mortensen as a father who lived with his children in the woods. But “Hanna,” a 2011 thriller, asked it with a fresh angle: what if someone were raised outside of society — to be a meticulous killer? The movie cast Saoirse Ronan in the role of Hanna, a teenager whose father trained her in the wilderness to be an assassin. This new adaptation, created and written by David Farr (a writer of the original movie), puts a new spin on the tale, with Hanna (now played by Esme Creed-Miles) hunting and being hunted by a C.I.A. agent (Mireille Enos).HURLEY (2019) Rent on Amazon, Fandango Now, Google Play, iTunes and Vudu. Near the beginning of this documentary, the driver Hurley Haywood is asked what makes him a legend of Daytona. He offers a basic response: “I guess the fact that I won it five times.” Haywood is a soft-spoken racer who rose to fame in the 1970s, after he won the two best-known 24-hour races, Daytona and Le Mans, in the same year. But the documentary focuses on another fact about him: Throughout his career, he had hid his sexuality. Through interviews and archival footage, the film reframes Haywood’s life as the story of a closeted gay man in the hyper-macho world of late-20th-century auto racing.THE HIGHWAYMEN (2019) Stream on Netflix. The buddy cops have streaks of gray hair in this based-on-true-events crime drama, which stars Woody Harrelson and Kevin Costner as two older Texas Rangers in the 1930s. They’re given the job of tracking down Bonnie and Clyde, the infamous criminals who were turned into romantic outsiders — a reputation cemented by the landmark 1967 film named for them. This drama instead romanticizes the authorities. “‘Bonnie and Clyde’ magnified the mystique of ’30s bank robbers by refracting it through the lens of counterculture revolt,” A. O. Scott wrote in his review of “The Highwaymen” for The New York Times. “This movie opposes that one with every fiber of its ornery being, including by its insistence on procedural tedium over cinematic excitement.”SNOW WHITE AND THE HUNTSMAN (2012) 10:30 p.m. on TNT. “There is nothing cute about this movie,” A. O. Scott wrote in his review in The Times of this reimagining of the Brothers Grimm fairy tale. That’s a compliment. Kristen Stewart plays a warrior Snow White and Charlize Theron is the angry queen, ratcheting down the cuteness associated with the Disney version and ramping up the darkness. It’s more “Game of Thrones” than “Heigh-ho.”Advertisement