AdvertisementSupported byBy Tacey RychterDid you know The New York Times publishes close to 30 film reviews each week?That’s hard for any film fan to keep up with — and doesn’t even count the immense review archive within TimesMachine, going back nearly a century in film history.But we’re here to help by curating the most relevant and interesting reviews specifically for our Australian audience in a way that lines up with the local release dates.This is our first wrap; email us if you like it, and we’ll roll it out monthly.[Prefer not to go out? Check out our Australian Netflix guide instead.]Starring: Steve Buscemi, Simon Russell Beale, Jeffrey Tambor, Andrea Riseborough, Olga KurylenkoDirected by: Armando IannucciWhat is it? “An eccentric comic shocker about a strong man and his world of ashes and blood.”You’ll like it if you liked: The HBO series “Veep.”Critic’s take: “‘The Death of Stalin’ is by turns entertaining and unsettling, with laughs that morph into gasps and uneasy gasps that erupt into queasy, choking laughs.”Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.Australian release date: March 29Starring: Nick Robinson, Jennifer Garner, Josh Duhamel, Katherine Langford, Alexandra ShippDirected by: Greg BerlantiWhat is it? A closeted gay high schooler finds solace and, eventually, love in an anonymous email buddy — until a blackmailer stumbles on the secret correspondence.You’ll like it if you liked: “The Edge of Seventeen,” “The Perks of Being a Wallflower” and “Pretty in Pink.”Critic’s take: “The emotional resonance may be surprising given the movie’s relentless gloss, but it’s real.”Read the full review by Glenn Kenny.Australian release date: March 29Starring: Emily Blunt, John Krasinski, Noah Jupe, Millicent Simmonds, Leon RussomDirected by: John KrasinskiWhat is it? “An old-fashioned creature feature with a single, simple hook. The creatures are blind, hungry and navigate by sound.”You’ll like it if you liked: “It Follows,” “The Babadook” and “Alien.”Critic’s take: “In its convincing portrayal of a situation where a rusty nail is as lethal as an unexploded bomb, and the few remaining inhabitants seem — much like the audience — more likely to die of stress than anything else, the movie rocks. You may go in jaded, but you’ll leave elated or I’ll eat my words.”Read the full review by Jeannette Catsoulis.Australian release date: April 5Starring: Bryan Cranston, Koyu Rankin, Edward Norton, Bob Balaban, Bill MurrayDirected by: Wes AndersonWhat is it? “An animated movie set in a fantasy Japan. There, cat-fancying villains of the future conspire to eradicate dogs.”You’ll like if you liked: Any Wes Anderson movie.Critic’s take: “Too often the movie feels overworked, fussy. And when an explosion darkens Trash Island, evoking the horrors of Japan’s past, Mr. Anderson feels like he’s circling a profundity he doesn’t know how to handle.”Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.Australian release date: April 12Starring: Lucy Hale, Tyler Posey, Violett Beane, Sophia Ali, Landon LiboironDirected by: Jeff WadlowWhat is it? A group of college friends discover too late that their Mexican vacation has left them with a nasty infection.You’ll like it if you liked: The “Final Destination” series.Critic’s take: “‘Truth or Dare’ is a wearying slog through crushed feelings and mangled bodies. So much so that when one poor soul was compelled to drive a ballpoint pen into his forehead, the temptation to emulate him was almost irresistible.”Read the full review by Jeannette Catsoulis.Australian release date: April 12Starring: Bryan Cranston, Laurence Fishburne, Steve Carell, J. Quinton Johnson, Deanna Reed-FosterDirected by: Richard LinklaterWhat is it? “Set in 2003, at the stage of the Iraq war when we were assured that the mission was being handily accomplished, it brings together three Vietnam veterans for a somber task.”You’ll like it if you liked:  “The Last Detail,” “Dazed and Confused” or “Waking Life.”Critic’s take: “Even if ‘Last Flag Flying’ isn’t quite persuasive, it is nonetheless enormously thought-provoking, and its roughness is a sign of how earnestly it grapples with matters that other movies about war prefer not to think about.”Read the full review by A.O. Scott. Australian release date: April 25Follow Tacey Rychter on Twitter: @taceyrychterWant more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing. Or better yet, just subscribe!Advertisement