AdvertisementSupported byBy Shane GoldmacherFormer President Bill Clinton is writing a new book about his post-presidential life, according to people familiar with the project, which was also confirmed by his spokesman.While Mr. Clinton has been out of public office for nearly two decades, he and Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, have remained fixtures on the national political scene. The former president’s standing was in decline during the 2018 midterm elections, however, with few Democrats seeking to campaign with him because of controversy over policies like the 1990s crime bill and his personal misconduct with women, which has come under a new spotlight because of the #MeToo movement.It is unclear how much of the book, if any, will deal with Mrs. Clinton’s two campaigns for president, or if Mr. Clinton will address the criticisms of his policy record or his personal behavior. He has mostly avoided those topics in his public appearances.Paul Bogaards, an executive vice president for the publisher, Knopf Doubleday, said there was still no timetable for publication and that while the book is about Mr. Clinton’s post-White House life it is still too “early to assess what ground will be covered.” Angel Ureña, Mr. Clinton’s press secretary, declined to comment on the contents of book.Mr. Clinton’s longtime attorney, Robert B. Barnett, negotiated the agreement with Knopf Doubleday. The sum was not disclosed.The book will be Mr. Clinton’s fifth since leaving the White House in 2001, including his best-selling autobiography, “My Life,” and most recently, his first best-selling novel, which was co-written with James Patterson (the title: “The President Is Missing”).The Clintons have remained public presences even since Mrs. Clinton’s surprise 2016 loss to President Trump. Mr. Clinton went on a book and media tour to promote his novel with Mr. Patterson, which included some discussions of the #MeToo movement.Mr. and Mrs. Clinton currently have plans for an 11-stop joint speaking tour that will continue in April in New York City.Their daughter, Chelsea Clinton, announced on Monday that she is pregnant with her third child, due later this summer.On a book tour of her own last fall, Ms. Clinton left open the possibility that she could run for political office herself someday, telling the local Westchester paper, “I think if someone were to step down or retire and I thought I could do a good job and it matched my talents, I’d have to think if it’s the right choice for me.”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the novel Mr. Clinton wrote with James Patterson. It is “The President is Missing,’’ not “The Missing President.’’Advertisement