AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BROOKLYN ART SONG SOCIETY at National Sawdust (June 1, 7 p.m.). Given that Harrison Birtwistle has been, and remains, one of the most important composers of the past several decades, it’s baffling that more of his music is not played, even by dedicated contemporary-music groups. Credit where it is due, then, for this company’s performance of “Songs From the Same Earth,” which shares a bill here with a premiere by Kurt Rohde and “4 Instants” by Kaija Saariaho. Charlotte Mundy and Zach Finkelstein are the singers; Michael Brofman and Miori Sugiyama are the pianists.646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.orgMET ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (June 5, 8 p.m.). In the last of this year’s concerts from the orchestra of the Metropolitan Opera, there is more Mahler, this time the Symphony No. 4, with Pretty Yende singing the final movement. Ms. Yende is also the soloist in Mozart’s sparkling “Exsultate, Jubilate.” The conductor is Michael Tilson Thomas, and there’s a single nod to his maverick side in the opening work: “Evocations,” by Carl Ruggles.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (June 1, 11 a.m.; through June 6). A change of pace to end the Philharmonic’s main subscription season, as the orchestra’s players give this program without a conductor. From the concertmaster’s chair, Frank Huang leads Mozart’s “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik,” Tchaikovsky’s Serenade for Strings and Mozart’s Violin Concerto No. 3. Sheryl Staples is the soloist.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgNOVUS NY at Trinity Wall Street (June 2, 8 p.m.). Trinity Wall Street’s new-music group, with the help of its massed choirs, concludes its celebration of Leonard Bernstein’s 100th birthday with a performance of “Chichester Psalms” led by Julian Wachner. Mr. Wachner’s own music also features, as does that of Lukas Foss, in the form of his “Psalms.” As ever at this downtown church, the concert is free.212-602-0800, trinitywallstreet.org‘THE ROSE ELF’ at Green-Wood Cemetery (June 6, 7.30 p.m.; through June 10). A new venture from the forces who have been staging concerts in a Harlem crypt takes music into the Brooklyn catacombs, beginning with the premiere of David Hertzberg’s new opera, directed by R. B. Schlather. Teddy Poll conducts a cast that includes the mezzo-soprano Samantha Hankey in the title role. All performances except for the dress rehearsal on June 4 have sold out, but you can sign up for the waiting list on Green-Wood’s website.green-wood.com/event/the-rose-elf/all/SPEKTRAL QUARTET at Bargemusic (June 3, 2 p.m.). I’ve long been an admirer of this excellent Chicago-based quartet, which has a thoughtful way with programming and a strong commitment to the new. In the coming week, there are two opportunities to hear it for yourself, and of the two, I’d pick this one, which pairs Schoenberg’s String Quartet No. 4 with the String Quartet No. 1 from Brahms. Then again, Tuesday’s concert at Miller Theater at 6 p.m. is both free and even more adventurous, with music by George Lewis, David Fulmer and Eliza Brown. You can’t go wrong with either.800-838-3006, bargemusic.orgAdvertisement