AdvertisementSupported byBy Brooks Barnes and John KoblinBURBANK, Calif. — The Walt Disney Company has been talking about plans to start a Netflix-style streaming service for two years. On Thursday came the big reveal.D-Day, as some in Hollywood called it.In a lavish presentation on the Disney lot, Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, offered long-awaited details about his counterattack on the tech giants that have moved into the entertainment business. The linchpin is Disney Plus, a new subscription video service dedicated to movies and shows from Disney, Pixar, the “Star Wars” franchise, National Geographic and Marvel.Disney Plus will cost $7 a month and arrive on Nov. 12. (Netflix’s cheapest plan is $9, and its standard plan is $13.) Disney said it intended to roll out the streaming service in Europe and Asia starting next year. It expects subscribers to total 60 million to 90 million by 2024.“We are all-in,” Mr. Iger said.In its first year, Disney Plus will offer 10 original films and 25 original series, including three “Avengers” spinoffs. Disney announced that all 30 seasons of “The Simpsons” would be available on Day One, along with nearly all the “Star Wars” movies, the entire Pixar library and family-focused movies and shows from its Fox library like “The Sound of Music” and “Malcolm in the Middle.”To market Disney Plus, the company vowed to use the full reach of its empire as it has never done before, starting with a “Star Wars” fan convention in Chicago this weekend. Disney will also mobilize its cruise line, global theme parks, retail stores, hotels and television networks, including ESPN and ABC.The presentation, inside Soundstage 2, home to the original “Mickey Mouse Club,” began with a 14-minute sizzle reel highlighting Disney’s vast library, which now includes Fox movies like “Titanic,” “Avatar” and “Alien.” Mr. Iger called the library “a treasure trove of long-lasting, valuable content” that “no other content or technology company can rival.”Mr. Iger added, “It was important to remind you that we’re starting from a position of strength, confidence and unbridled optimism.”The moment amounted to a turning point in the streaming wars. For the first time, a traditional media company demonstrated the firepower needed to compete with Silicon Valley in the fast-growing realm of online video.Disney’s plans could have failed to impress, along the lines of what happened to Apple last month when it staged a similar event focused on its streaming ambitions. Apple trotted out celebrities but offered few specifics — nothing on pricing, no launch date, barely any footage.Disney has a mixed track record with technology, struggling to find a winning strategy with video games and failing to capitalize on tech-related acquisitions like Maker, a YouTube-based video supplier.Unlike Apple, Disney unveiled footage from original shows and films that are headed to Disney Plus. One live-action series is called “The Mandalorian.” Set in the “Star Wars” universe and created by Jon Favreau, the show cost an estimated $100 million for 10 episodes, on a par with earlier seasons of HBO’s extravagant “Game of Thrones.”Disney also demonstrated the Disney Plus app. The simple user interface, with movie and television tiles arranged against a dark background, will look familiar to any Netflix, Amazon or Hulu user. There will be “recommended for you” rows of suggested shows and movies, as well as the option to “continue watching” programs.There will be tiles dedicated to the Disney brands, including Pixar, ‘Star Wars’ and National Geographic. Each time a user hovers over a brand tile, an animated image is set off — fireworks blasting behind the Magic Kingdom for the Disney tile or a comic book flip for Marvel.Users can make a personalized avatar using characters from Disney’s intellectual property, including Buzz Lightyear and Moana.While the three-and-a-half-hour presentation’s target audience was Wall Street — analysts were invited to attend — the presentation was also aimed at potential Disney Plus subscribers. Disney also discussed its broader streaming business, which includes Hulu, ESPN Plus and Hotstar, which has 300 million monthly active users in India.Disney will “likely” bundle its disparate services at a discounted price, according to Kevin Mayer, chairman of the company’s Direct-to-Consumer and International division. Mr. Mayer said that Disney was “actively evaluating” international strategies for Hulu, which currently operates exclusively in the United States. (Unlike Netflix.)Will Disney greatly expand Hulu’s budget? Randy Freer, the chief executive of Hulu, said it planned to expand original programs but did not say by how much.With Disney’s acquisition of much of 21st Century Fox, it now owns 60 percent of Hulu, giving the service a majority owner for the first time in its history. (The other companies with ownership stakes include Comcast, at 30 percent, and AT&T’s Warner Media.) Hulu now has 25 million subscribers. Disney said it expected Hulu’s subscriber number to reach 40 million to 60 million in five years, and to be profitable by 2023 or 2024.Most analysts have sky-high expectations for Disney Plus, which the company styles as Disney+.“Our confidence in the resilient success of Disney+ comes from the company’s unmatched brand recognition, extensive premium content and unparalleled ecosystem to market the service,” Alexia Quadrani, an analyst at J.P. Morgan, wrote in a recent report. Bank of Montreal and Cowen and Company both upgraded Disney’s stock ahead of Thursday’s presentation.Mr. Iger has spent years laying the groundwork for Disney Plus. In 2015, as Netflix grew at a blistering rate, Disney began experimenting overseas with an app called DisneyLife. Rolled out in Britain, DisneyLife offered old movies and television series, children’s e-books, games and music. Without new movies, or at least exclusive content, interest was limited.In 2016 Mr. Iger started talking more openly about needing to develop a streaming business — a risky proposition for a company with vast traditional television holdings. Disney paid $1 billion for a 33 percent stake in BamTech, a streaming services company, eventually paying $1.58 billion more for majority control.Mr. Iger announced in summer 2017 that Disney would introduce its own Netflix-style service and stop selling movie rerun rights to Netflix, forgoing hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. In 2018 came Disney’s $71.3 billion purchase of 21st Century Fox assets, including National Geographic and the Fox movie studio. Mr. Iger positioned the acquisition as supercharging Disney’s move into streaming.Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at MoffettNathanson, estimated in a report on Tuesday that Disney Plus could lose as much as $1.8 billion annually through 2023, with programming as one major expense. Add in losses from Hulu and ESPN Plus and Mr. Nathanson expects Disney’s streaming division to lose roughly $3.8 billion this year and next.At least nine new movies are in production or advanced development for Disney Plus, with budgets ranging from $20 million to $60 million. Disney is remaking two musicals from its animation library as live-action films: “Lady and the Tramp” (1955) and “The Sword in the Stone” (1963). Other new movies include “Togo,” a period adventure about a sled dog; “Noelle,” starring Anna Kendrick as Santa’s daughter; and an animated “Phineas and Ferb” movie.Marvel Studios is working on three Disney Plus shows. One will focus on Loki from the “Avengers” movies, with Tom Hiddleston reprising the role. Another “Avengers” star, Elizabeth Olsen, will reprise her Scarlet Witch character in a second series. A third show will be associated with “Captain America: The Winter Soldier,” with Anthony Mackie returning as the Falcon.Also in the works are episodic spinoffs of Disney franchises like “High School Musical” and “Monsters, Inc.” Additionally, Disney is working on 10 unscripted shows, including a Disney-themed cooking competition, “Be Our Chef,” and a series called “Encore!” that reunites the casts of high school musicals long after graduation and asks them to recreate their performance.Roughly 500 films from Disney’s library, including new movies like “Captain Marvel,” and 7,500 episodes of old Disney-branded television shows like “Hannah Montana” will anchor Disney Plus.Advertisement