AdvertisementSupported byPreet Bharara on justice, a chronicle of gun violence in Chicago, a grown-up fairy tale and more.By Joumana KhatibThere’s a book for every taste coming out in March: one about a fictional band that calls to mind Fleetwood Mac, a deep dive into the culture of programmers in Silicon Valley, a darkly comic novel about a suburb in crisis and more. Here are some titles to watch for.[ Want to keep up with the latest book news, reviews and features? Subscribe to our Books Briefing newsletter. ]Over the last two decades, tens of thousands of people have been killed or wounded by guns in Chicago, but the numbers alone don’t begin to express the havoc that violence unleashes on communities. Kotlowitz, the author of “There Are No Children Here,” profiles people who have been deeply affected by gun violence: a school social worker, a former gang leader, a man who killed someone decades earlier and is still reckoning with his actions. [ Read our review. ]Thompson, a longtime tech writer, brings an anthropologist’s eye to the world of programming, outlining the types of people you meet in Silicon Valley and even offering a beginner’s guide to coding. Part history, part cautionary tale, the book shows the pitfalls of a world — and a way of living — designed by programmers. [ Read our review. ]This novel, framed as an oral history, charts the rise of a hard-partying, iconic band in the 1970s. Daisy is an up-and-coming young singer, and after her duet with Billy, the frontman of The Six, becomes a breakout hit, she joins the band full-time. The book is a love story, too: not only of Daisy and Billy’s will-they-won’t-they romance, but also a sentimental appreciation for the era.[ Read our review. ]The former chief prosecutor of the Southern District of New York, Bharara was fired by President Trump in 2017. In this book, he outlines how the justice system works, and makes a case for why those bedrock principles are critical to society.[ Read our review. ]Harriet and Perdita, the mother and daughter at the heart of this novel, are passionate about their gingerbread recipe, which is beloved in Harriet’s distant home country. The story takes on the feel of a fairy tale, as the women navigate family history, jealousies, grudges and more.[ Read our review. ]Washington’s debut reads like a love letter to Houston. At its heart is a boy’s coming-of-age story as he navigates tensions at home and figures out his sexuality; other characters, including hurricane survivors, a scrappy baseball team and a woman having an affair, populate these stories.[ Read our review. ]Olson, the author of “Last Hope Island” and “Citizens of London,” tells the fascinating (and little-known) story of Marie-Madeleine Fourcade. Imprisoned twice by the Nazis, she kept her network together and supplied critical intelligence to Britain and the United States, even as the Gestapo killed hundreds of its agents.[ Read our review. ]The lives of three Zambian families — one white, one black, one brown — unfold over generations, and Serpell interweaves their stories with a history of the country. Narrated by a swarm-like chorus of characters, the novel starts in Zambia’s colonial past and imagines a technologically advanced future.[ Read our review. ]In this modern-day survival tale, a canoe trip in northern Canada turns grim for two college friends after a wildfire breaks out near their route. Things become even more dire when the friends wade into a domestic dispute between a man and woman they encounter on the trip, and the novel takes on the urgency of a thriller.[ Read our review. ]To understand Munch’s enduring legacy, Knausgaard interviews contemporary artists and explores the forces that shaped the painter. The book brings together biography and criticism, including Knausgaard’s take on some of Munch’s best-known paintings.Jackson, the author of the novel “The Residue Years,” writes about his own childhood in Portland, Ore., and the entrenched racism and economic inequality that shaped his community. Along the way, he interweaves poems and narratives from members of his family. As Jackson puts it in his author’s note, “Our stories of survival are inseparable from the ever-fraught history of America.”[ Read our review. ]The construction of a looming McMansion — the novel’s namesake — in Willard Park upends what had been a quiet suburb. Langsdorf’s wry debut captures the fallout as neighbors turn on one another, trees are set on fire and the town seems poised to fall apart.[ Read our review. ]Advertisement