AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (March 19-20, 8 p.m.). Luxuriate in the first of the Boston Symphony’s concerts in the coming week, and be challenged by the second. On Tuesday, Andris Nelsons leads an all-Strauss program that includes “Also sprach Zarathustra,” but he cedes the spotlight mostly to Renée Fleming, who sings the final scene from that curiously underrated work “Capriccio.” On Wednesday, Thomas Adès conducts the New York premiere of his brilliant Concerto for Piano and Orchestra, with Kirill Gerstein as the soloist, and also leads Liszt’s “Mephisto Waltz No. 1” and Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 4.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgMATTHIAS GOERNE AND DANIIL TRIFONOV at the 92nd Street Y (March 17, 3 p.m.). In this presentation from the Y and the New York Philharmonic, Goerne, who is the Philharmonic’s artist in residence this season, is joined by musicians from the orchestra and the pianist Daniil Trifonov for songs by Schubert, Brahms, Eisler and Schumann; Trifonov also performs Brahms’s Piano Trio No. 1.212-415-5500, 92y.orgCHRIS GROSS at the Stone (March 15, 8:30 p.m.). The Talea Ensemble has been in residence at the Stone this week, and there’s still time to catch the tail end of its series. Here, the ensemble’s cellist performs an intriguing series of solos, written by Alvin Lucier, Giacinto Scelsi, Salvatore Sciarrino, Mario Diaz de Leon and Eva-Maria Houben.thestonenyc.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (March 21, 7:30 p.m.; through March 26). Jaap van Zweden conducts Brahms’s Symphony No. 1, Charles Ives’s “Central Park in the Dark,” and John Adams’s “The Wound-Dresser,” a setting of Walt Whitman. Matthias Goerne is the singer.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgTHEATER OF VOICES at Zankel Hall (March 20, 7:30 p.m.). This vocal ensemble made a particularly fine recording of David Lang’s “The Little Match Girl Passion,” so catch it here, led by the conductor Paul Hillier, in the premiere of the complete cycle of Lang’s “The Writings.” Before that, there are selections of music by Arvo Part, performed with a visual poem by Phie Ambo, “Songs From the Soil.”212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org‘TOSCA’ at the Metropolitan Opera (March 18, 8 p.m.; through April 6). David McVicar’s production of Puccini’s classic tragedy returns for a second run this season, this time with Jennifer Rowley in the title role. Joseph Calleja remains Cavaradossi and Wolfgang Koch arrives as Scarpia. Carlo Rizzi conducts.212-362-6000, metopera.orgAdvertisement