AdvertisementSupported byCover storiesHere’s how designers get a concept from good to must-pick-up. By John WilliamsCover Stories is a series in which book designers discuss their work: concepts that didn’t make the final cut and the cover as published.Glen David Gold’s memoir, “I Will Be Complete,” is nearly 500 pages, and recounts his 20s, his college years and his event-filled youth after his mother moved to New York and left him, at 12, temporarily alone in her San Francisco apartment. The length of the book, and the amount of ground it covers, made the prospect of designing a cover for it “a little intimidating,” said Tyler Comrie, a senior designer at Knopf who was given the task.“There’s a part in the book where Glen stumbles on a puberty chart, when he was 14 or so,” Comrie said. “This presented a perfect opportunity: Three different stages of his life, all tied together with this thing he finds in the book and causes a lot of self-reflection. I was wishing he had dug this one a little bit more. In the end, I think there was too much humor. It made the book seem lighter than it is.”“The book is saying so much, it spans so much of Glen’s life. How can we incorporate all these elements?” Comrie wondered. Ensuing drafts included illustrations of items from the memoir: books, coins, chess pieces.Another version employed a more photographic approach, with scenes from San Francisco.After those and other attempts, Gold sent Comrie a piece of art by a friend of his, Andrew Nilsen. It inspired Comrie, who licensed the work and shared credit with Nilsen on the final design. “At that point, it was kind of liberating: O.K., let’s just make something beautiful,” Comrie said. Beauty was a priority, but the more abstract final cover still has echoes of many elements found in the book. The Golden Gate Bridge is immediately identifiable. The rest might not be: a screen shot from the early video game Pong, an I.Q. chart, tarot cards. They’re all there, and all make appearances in Gold’s story.“I think this is probably the best one of the bunch,” Comrie said. “Sometimes it can be a painful process, but in the end when it turns out like this, it’s really gratifying.” The final result was chosen by Matt Dorfman, the art director of The New York Times Book Review, as one of the 12 best covers of 2018.Matt Vee, senior designer at Penguin and Viking Books, had a very personal stake in getting the cover right for Elaine Castillo’s “America Is Not the Heart.”“As I started reading the novel, my art director knew I had a connection, being half-Filipino,” Vee said. “This is almost exactly my mother’s story. The character emigrates over from the Philippines to California when she’s 13 or so, and that’s exactly what happened to my mom.”When Vee started drawing up initial ideas (“the roughest of sketches,” he emphasized), he began “in a very obvious place, using the flag but replacing the sun with a very literal heart. It’s playing exactly into the title.” Then he decided to deconstruct the sunrise idea. “It’s still the sun at the top, but it’s casting these shadows,” Vee said. “I would have refined this; the words don’t exactly line up. The words in shadows are the same text, but in a Filipino dialect. The shadows speak to looking back on the past, and some sort of discussion happening between then and now.”Another version incorporated a stock illustration of the American flag on an island — “this idyllic little island, where you’ve got your own lawn,” Vee said. “It just looks like the American dream to me. And I turned it into the Filipino flag as well and put that up top. I think the next step would have been to somehow make it so that if you turned the cover upside down, it would still work. The type is very rough, that was just a stand-in. I’m not a great hand-typer.”The final cover, below, includes Vee’s treatment of an old stock illustration. He said that he normally tries to avoid using stock images, but this one reminded him strongly of how he felt while reading the novel. “It’s this idea of being torn between two homes,” he said. “Did she emigrate to America or from the Philippines? It evokes a certain time period of traditional American values. There was initially a full family there, and I erased the father and son.”The type treatment for the title and Castillo’s name was originally “very straightforward,” Vee said, but the final version “felt like the book to me.” Vee deliberately cropped off the place where the path meets the horizon. “I just wanted it to be a vague idea of where they’re headed to, wherever that is. So the text is meant to be radiating out from there, almost like sun rays.”“I really wanted to nail this on behalf of my people,” Vee said. “It was a one-of-a-kind opportunity. For a while I thought about just finding a picture of my mother that was taken at the right age. I was definitely playing with the idea of putting my mother on the cover of this book.”Sometimes a designer gets the perfect cover on the first try; or just about, anyway. That’s what happened when Marina Drukman, the art director of Melville House, was working on Tom Feiling’s “The Island That Disappeared.” “I knew right away that I wanted to do a map, because I love maps, especially old maps,” she said.The book tells the story of the small Caribbean island of Providence, off the coast of Nicaragua, where the Seaflower, a sister ship to the Mayflower, landed. Drukman started by finding an old scan of a map of the area. Her first stab at the cover “was more or less traditional, showing the actual island and all the same elements,” she said.In the design that was ultimately chosen, “it was made into somewhat of a joke: the fact that the island has disappeared and it’s not actually there. And people were like, ‘Oh, that’s funny.’ I go for funny whenever I can. I struggled with it for a little bit. I preferred the title floating and taking space on the cover, but it was killing the idea. I didn’t think it was going to fly, because it’s a serious history book and it’s not a joke, but somehow everyone loved it.”Advertisement