AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.A FAR CRY at the Naumburg Bandshell (July 10, 7:30 p.m.). Boston’s premiere chamber orchestra makes an appearance in Central Park, with a typically wide-ranging program. The earliest piece is Mozart’s Divertimento in F (K. 138), a work he wrote as a teenager and none the less perfect for it. There’s also Bartok’s homage to the same form, his Divertimento for String Orchestra. Contemporary music is doubly represented, too, by Philip Glass’s Symphony No. 3 and Osvaldo Golijov’s “Tenebrae.” Admission is free.naumburgconcerts.orgBOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. (July 6-7, 8 p.m.; July 8, 2:30 p.m.). Opening weekend at Tanglewood begins with Andris Nelsons conducting the Boston Symphony on Friday night, in Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 5, the overture to Mozart’s “The Magic Flute” and Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 24. Lang Lang is the soloist. On Sunday afternoon, Mr. Nelsons leads Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 5 and Brahms’s Piano Concerto No. 1, with Rudolf Buchbinder at the keyboard. In between, on Saturday evening, comes a more enticing prospect than both: a semi-staged performance of Bernstein’s musical “On the Town,” played by the Boston Pops under Keith Lockhart, and directed by Kathleen Marshall.888-266-1200, bso.orgCHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER at Alice Tully Hall (July 8, 5 p.m.; July 11, 7:30 p.m.). The Chamber Music Society offers two easygoing concerts this week. On Sunday, the Orion String Quartet plays a quartet by Haydn, is joined by the violist Matthew Lipman for Mozart’s String Quintet in G minor and is further joined by the cellist Mihai Marica for Dvorak’s String Sextet in A. On Wednesday, there’s Beethoven’s String Trio in G, Mendelssohn’s Piano Quartet in F minor and Brahms’s Piano Trio in C. Gloria Chien is the pianist; the string players are Alexander Sitkovetsky, Paul Neubauer and Clive Greensmith.212-875-5788, chambermusicsociety.orgAdvertisement