AdvertisementSupported byBy the BookThe scholar and host of the PBS series “Reconstruction,” whose latest books are “Dark Sky Rising” and “Stony the Road,” is a productive beach reader: “I read more during two months on the Vineyard … than I do the entire rest of the year.”What books are on your nightstand?I have two nightstands, one by my bed and one by my recliner in our family room, from which I grade the weekly one-page assignments for my graduate seminar on the Harlem Renaissance. I keep, on the nightstand by my bed, the reading assignment for my next class. On the stand by the recliner, I keep three or four books that I’m reading either as part of a research project, for a book I’m writing or a documentary film I’m making, or because I’ve read a review about it. More and more, I read to write or read to teach. James Weldon Johnson’s early modernist novel, “The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man,” is by my bedside because I’m teaching it next week. On the table by my recliner sit David W. Blight’s biography of Frederick Douglass, Jeffrey C. Stewart’s biography of Alain Locke, Holly Goldberg Sloan and Meg Wolitzer’s “To Night Owl From Dogfish,” Sarah Ladipo Manyika’s novel “In Dependence” (in galleys) and Toni Morrison’s “The Source of Self-Regard,” her new book of essays.What’s the last great book you read?It’s a tie between W. E. B. Du Bois’s “Black Reconstruction: An Essay Toward a History of the Part Which Black Folk Played in the Attempt to Reconstruct Democracy in America, 1860-1880,” and Eric Foner’s “Reconstruction: America’s Unfinished Revolution, 1863-1877.”What’s your go-to classic? And your favorite book no one else has heard of?The book I never tire of rereading is Wole Soyinka’s tragedy “Death and the King’s Horseman.” The Swedish Academy cited it when he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1986. It’s a tragedy in the Aristotelian sense, charting, in an irresistibly beautiful and densely lyrical poetic diction, the rise and fall of the king’s most privileged nobleman or chief over a 24-hour period on what he knows is meant to be the last day of his life. His judgment beclouded by hubris, he mistakes Thanatos for Eros, with the deadliest of consequences. Whereas by day’s end one person should have died, alas the number of dead will total two. “Death and the King’s Horseman” is one of the greatest plays written in the 20th century. It is timeless, a play about being and the will, and the relation of both to the duties of tradition versus desire — the desire to live — without regard to the consequences. Because the tragic hero is so very human, so likable and so compelling, so very much like all of us, this play will, I believe, remain a classic for a very long time. I also read “The Souls of Black Folk,” by W. E. B. Du Bois, every year.I have three favorite books that I don’t believe are read anymore: “Song of Lawino,” by Okot p’Bitek, “The Master of Go,” by Yasunari Kawabata, and “Narcissus and Goldmund,” by Hermann Hesse.What books would you recommend to someone who wants to know more about American culture?I would suggest that they read Toni Morrison’s novels, in chronological order, after reading Faulkner’s novels and Ralph Ellison’s “Invisible Man.” If by “American” you mean the Americas throughout the Western Hemisphere, I’d add García-Márquez. Ellison, Morrison and García-Márquez descend straight out of Faulkner, improvising, signifying, playing the dozens and tap-dancing on his Yoknapatawpha head.Which writers — novelists, playwrights, critics, journalists, poets — working today do you admire most? I love Jamaica Kincaid’s fiction and essays, especially her essays on gardening; the poetry of Rita Dove, Elizabeth Alexander and Jorie Graham; the essays of Adam Gopnik, Zadie Smith and Malcolm Gladwell; Simon Schama’s art criticism. David Remnick on Russia. Joyce Carol Oates on boxing. Anything Helen Vendler has to say about any aspect of English or American literature. Stephen Greenblatt on Shakespeare. Kwame Anthony Appiah on ethics and identity. Paul Krugman and David Brooks on this moment in the history of world civilization. William Julius Wilson on race and class.Whose opinion on books do you most trust?Darryl Pinckney’s review-essays in The New York Review of Books. He’s a master of the art of the book review.When do you read?In the mornings, after doing email. Just before going to sleep. I do my class preparations mostly on weekends. But I read most enjoyably at the beach. I read more during two months on the Vineyard and our forays to Varadero than I do the entire rest of the year.What moves you most in a work of literature?A phrasing of a structure of feeling that I didn’t really know I had, something so beautifully or hauntingly stated that I used to copy the words longhand in a commonplace book when I was in high school and college.Which genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid?I love biographies, science fiction and detective novels for pleasure. I don’t read cookbooks, but I have recently fallen in love with “The Great British Baking Show,” which is like 60 minutes of Zen meditation between the evening news and the latest episode in the continuing saga of Donald J. Trump unfolding 24/7 on CNN.What book by somebody else do you wish you had written?“One Hundred Years of Solitude.”How do you organize your books?I just donated 14,000 books to Spelman College, so I’m starting the organizational process all over. I keep two shelves to the right of my writing desk filled with books I’m consulting for our PBS documentaries on black history or new books on genetics for “Finding Your Roots.”What’s the last book you recommended to someone in your family?David Reich’s “Who We Are and How We Got Here,” a brilliant new history of human evolution.What book might people be surprised to find on your shelves?The 1806 edition of Samuel Johnson’s “Lives of the Poets,” with which I fell in love in graduate school at Cambridge. And perhaps a lovely set of the Oxford English Dictionary.Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine? Your favorite antihero or villain?My favorite heroine is Iyaloja, the mother of the market in Soyinka’s “Death and the King’s Horseman.” She understands that one can only improvise on tradition so far, before the fundamentals of order disintegrate and, well, “things fall apart.”What kind of reader were you as a child? Which childhood books and authors stick with you most?Writing was always magical for me, starting with the first book, I think, that I ever read on my own, “The Poky Little Puppy.” Books would grow in length over time, but it took awhile. I went through a period in elementary school when I only read books about sports, especially basketball. My breakthrough “real” novels, in the eighth grade, were “A Tale of Two Cities” and “Les Misérables,” with “The Agony and the Ecstasy” squeezed in between. And then, at an Episcopal Church camp in the summer of 1965, I discovered James Baldwin’s essays. No turning back after that.If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?Eric Foner’s “Reconstruction,” especially the sections about Andrew Johnson.You’re organizing a literary dinner party. Which three writers, dead or alive, do you invite?Soyinka is always good company. I’d love to listen to him talk tragedy with Euripides and Brecht, if Lorca wasn’t available.Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel as if you were supposed to like, and didn’t? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?I don’t.Whom would you want to write your life story? Jamaica Kincaid.What do you plan to read next?Jean Toomer’s classic work of modernism, “Cane,” which took Du Bois’s metaphor of double consciousness as both theme and structuring principle, to show that what Du Bois felt to be a social malady — an outgrowth of Jim Crow racism — which had to be cured, as it were, was in fact the definition of modernity itself.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement