AdvertisementSupported byBy Sean L. McCarthyOur guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.APRIL FOOLS COMEDY SHOW at Hulu Theater at Madison Square Garden (March 30, 8:30 p.m.). This Monday is the day that makes pranksters most merry, but the comedian Sommore and others will get a jump on the foolishness on Saturday. She hosts a lineup that includes Lavell Crawford (whom you might know as Huell from “Breaking Bad” and “Better Caul Saul”), Rickey Smiley, D.C. Young Fly, Karlous Miller and Chico Bean. 212-465-6225, msg.com‘THE EXHIBITION’ at Public Arts (March 29, 8 p.m.). The comedians Mary Beth Barone and Michael Cruz Kayne curate a monthly showcase at this space inside the Public Hotel on the Lower East Side. Come for stand-up from Fumi Abe, Jena Friedman, Phoebe Robinson and Natasha Vaynblat; stay for the after-show dance party. 212-735-6000, publichotels.comGARDEN OF LAUGHS at Hulu Theater at Madison Square Garden (April 2, 8 p.m.). MSG’s biennial all-star comedy benefit for its Garden of Dreams Foundation, which supports children’s organizations in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, will be hosted this year by Steve Schirripa, an actor on “The Sopranos” and “Blue Bloods” and one of the foundation’s advisory board members. Jerry Seinfeld, Jon Stewart, Bill Burr, Michael Che, Iliza Shlesinger, John Mulaney and Brian Regan will contribute their talents to raise money for this worthy cause. 212-465-6225, msg.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]‘LET’S SEE, WHAT ELSE?’ at the Bowery Ballroom (April 2, 8 p.m.). For the third anniversary of their weekly show, the hosts Courtney Maginnis and Tom Delgado have upsized from their regular spot (Wednesdays at Poco in the East Village) to celebrate with Janeane Garofalo, Janelle James, Casey James Salengo, Michael Kosta and Sam Morril. As usual, Maginnis and Delgado will keep you entertained with trivia and giveaways, too. Let’s see … what else?212-260-4700, mercuryeastpresents.com‘QUEERBALL: A QUEER COMEDY EXTRAVAGANZA’ at SubCulture (March 29, 10 p.m.). Timothy Dunn hosts this monthly variety showcase for L.G.B.T.Q. comedians and their allies to present their latest, greatest sketches, characters, improv scenes, stand-up, drag and whatever else they’ve got. It’s like “Saturday Night Live,” but more colorful.212-533-5470, subculture.ucbtheatre.comTHE JASON SÁENZ BENEFIT EXTRAVAGANZA at Arlene’s Grocery (April 1, 9 p.m.). Sáenz, a comedian known for the mock advertisements called “Sáenz Signs” that he plastered around New York City, moved to Los Angeles and began working for Steve Harvey when he fell through a skylight and became paralyzed from the waist down in December — a month before his health insurance would have kicked in. His fans in New York, Los Angeles and Washington are throwing fund-raisers for him in the coming week to help him cover the hospital and rehab bills. The Manhattan show will feature a raffle and performances by Melissa Villaseñor, Chris Gethard, Ramy Youssef, Sáenz’s Upright Citizens Brigade troupe Onassis and many more.212-358-1633, arlenesgrocery.net Advertisement