AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BEHZOD ABDURAIMOV at the 92nd Street Y (Feb. 2, 8 p.m.). This young, unshowy, but mightily effective pianist performs Liszt’s Piano Sonata; the same composer’s gloss on the end of Wagner’s “Tristan,” “Isoldes Liebestod”; and Prokofiev’s transcriptions of numbers from his ballet “Romeo and Juliet.”212-415-5500, 92y.orgJEREMY DENK at Carnegie Hall (Feb. 1, 8 p.m.). Denk is as good a writer as he is a pianist, and his recitals often have an elegant, literary quality to them, teasing out connections, taking them in new directions, arriving somewhere one never quite expected. So it is here, with a program full of sets of variations, of homages, of reflections. One is found in John Adams’s “I Still Play,” a miniature tribute to the record producer Bob Hurwitz, and itself a nod to Hurwitz’s love of Bach. But Beethoven dominates, represented by the “Five Variations on ‘Rule Britannia’” and the “Eroica Variations,” as well as by his influence over Mendelssohn’s “Variations Sérieuses” and Schumann’s Fantasy in C. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org‘LA FILLE DU RÉGIMENT’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Feb. 7, 7:30 p.m.; through March 2). The bel canto superstar Javier Camarena returns to sing the tenor lead in Laurent Pelly’s production of this Donizetti opera. Pretty Yende is Marie, with Stephanie Blythe, Kathleen Turner and Alessandro Corbelli also on hand. Enrique Mazzola conducts. 212-362-6000, metopera.orgLEONIDAS KAVAKOS AND YUJA WANG at Carnegie Hall (Feb. 6, 8 p.m.). Wang’s Perspectives series continues with this recital featuring her frequent collaborator, an artistic union in which seemingly different temperaments nonetheless work together productively. On the bill: Brahms’s Violin Sonata No. 2, Prokofiev’s Violin Sonata No. 1, Bartok’s Rhapsody No. 1 and Strauss’s Violin Sonata in E flat.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Feb. 7, 7:30 p.m.; through Feb. 9). Just the one work this week from the music director Jaap Van Zweden: Brahms’s “A German Requiem.” Ying Fang is the soprano, Matthias Goerne the baritone, and the choir is the Concert Chorale of New York, trained by James Bagwell.212-875-5656, nyphil.org‘QUARTET FOR THE END OF TIME’ at the Church of the Intercession (Feb. 5, 8 p.m.). Squeeze your way onto the wait list for this concert featuring Messiaen’s haunting masterpiece, played in a crypt. The performers are the violinist Stefan Jackiw, the cellist Jay Campbell, the pianist Orion Weiss and the clarinetist Yoonah Kim.deathofclassical.comSONNAMBULA at the Met Cloisters (Feb. 2, 7 p.m.). The author Teju Cole joins this viol consort in residence for a performance blending readings, photography and music in celebration of the 17th-century composer Leonora Duarte.212-570-3949, metmuseum.orgAdvertisement