AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders recall a time when African-Americans relied on a guidebook to tell them where they could stay and eat. To the Editor:Re “The Black History of the ‘Green Book,’” by Brent Staples (Editorial Observer, Jan. 28), about a Jim Crow-era guide to hotels and restaurants that welcomed African-Americans:Early one evening in April 1964, a traveling salesman checked in at the Downtowner Motor Inn in Greenville, S.C., where I worked part time while in college. Finding no local “approved” lodging for his driver listed in the Green Book, he asked where his driver could spend the night.In my naïveté, I said we had plenty of rooms to fill and that the driver could stay at the Downtowner, adding that it would be convenient for the driver and salesman to stay at the same hotel.A week later I was told that the salesman informed the hotel manager he would no longer stay there because he didn’t want to sleep where a driver would be welcome. Soon after, the manager’s handwritten note to desk clerks clearly indicated that drivers should be referred to other hotels.David RobertsAthens, Ga.To the Editor:In the early 1960s, before the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, I drove from my home in Houston to El Paso to attend an Army Reserve Officers two-week summer training camp at Fort Bliss. While there I met an African-American officer from Houston and we became friendly. Unfortunately I had to fly home without delay and I asked my new friend to drive my car the 750 miles back to Houston at the end of the camp.He hesitantly agreed. Upon retrieving my car at my friend’s home in Houston, I asked him why he had been reluctant.He replied, “Didn't you know that there is no place between El Paso and Houston where I could get a room or have a meal?” Even though I was an active member of a Houston council promoting civil rights, it hadn’t occurred to me.William J. SalmanSanta Fe, N.M.To the Editor:My mother’s uncle, James Herman Banning, and his mechanic, Thomas C. Allen, became the first black pilots to fly across America, in 1932. Before they flew out of Los Angeles headed to Long Island, they plotted their route so that they would land in towns that had a black community. The trip required 21 days to complete because the pilots had to raise money for the next leg of the trip each time they stopped.Sometimes they had forced landings in “sundown towns,” which proved to be challenging. Other times they had forced landings in a white farmer’s field; seeing two black pilots flying a biplane shocked the white folks into sympathy rather than racist outrage. They made their way successfully to Long Island using their version of a “Green Book” for black pilots.Philip S. HartLos AngelesThe writer is the author of “Flying Free: America’s First Black Aviators.”To the Editor:A friend tells the story of how her African-American father and mother, who had a medical degree and a doctorate, respectively, traveled from Ithaca, N.Y., to New York City in 1939 to visit the World’s Fair. After a pleasant and exhausting day touring the fair, no Midtown hotel would offer them a room. Finally, as they passed the Taft Hotel, the doorman recognized the doctor from medical school. (Many college-educated African-Americans were unable to find employment in the fields in which they trained.) He offered to find them a room if they came back later that night. Climbing up the back stairway, the couple were able to secure a night’s lodging.In time, the doctor became a welcome, recurring guest at the Taft Hotel until it gradually declined, at which point the doctor switched to the Waldorf Astoria.Eugenia WiltshireNew YorkAdvertisement