AdvertisementSupported byBy Sean L. McCarthyOur guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘ADAM RUINS EVERYTHING’ PRESENTS: MIND PARASITE LIVE WITH ADAM CONOVER at the Bell House (March 9, 8 p.m.). Conover, the host of the TruTV comedy series that reveals the truth behind our commonly held beliefs and institutions, now wants to pull back the curtain on how popular culture influences your thinking. And not in a good way. Consider this show part stand-up, part mind-blowing psychology class.718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.com‘DEEP NIGHT WITH DALE’ at the Slipper Room (March 13, 8 p.m.). James Bewley hosts this talk show in disguise as a turtleneck-wearing wannabe guru named Dale Seever. He welcomes as his guests the comedians Todd Barry, Monroe Martin and Alex Song; Mallory O’Meara, author of “The Lady From the Black Lagoon”; the theremin player Cornelius Loy; and the Deep Night Dancers from 96B Dance Theater. 212-253-7246, slipperroom.com‘MY WIFE HATES ME’ at Fat Black Pussycat Lounge (March 12, 8:30 p.m.). Rich Vos competed on the first season of NBC’s “Last Comic Standing,” while Bonnie McFarlane was on the second season. They married in 2005, had a daughter in 2007 and have played up their marital strife for podcast listeners since 2011. As the saying goes, you only roast the ones you love. Watch Vos and McFarlane prove that love in this live podcast recording. 212-254-3480, comedycellar.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]‘STAND BY YOUR BAND’ LIVE! at Union Hall (March 14, 8 p.m.). In the mornings, the comedian Tom Thakkar was up for anything when he was the sidekick for “You Up With Nikki Glaser.” Now Thakkar partners with his good friend Tommy McNamara for this podcast, which invites comedians to defend the bands that they love but everyone else loves to hate. Guests at this live taping will include Josh Gondelman, Shalewa Sharpe, Sean Donnelly, Mary Houlihan, Ashley Hamilton, Claire Parker, Eudora Peterson, Nick Naney, Casey James Salengo and Jordan Temple. 718-638-4400, unionhallny.com‘TINDER LIVE WITH LANE MOORE’ at Littlefield (March 8, 8:30 p.m.). Moore celebrates the fifth anniversary of her live commentary while using this popular dating app, with Janeane Garofalo as her special guest. On International Women’s Day, these funnywomen will get to swiping left and right for your amusement.877-435-9849, littlefieldnyc.comAdvertisement