by Jason BaileyAug. 23, 2018UPDATED Aug. 24, 2018Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.Every month, as various licenses expire, streaming services lose movies and TV series from their catalogs. Here are 13 great movies leaving Netflix in September.Every month, as various licenses expire, streaming services lose movies and TV series from their catalogs. Here are 13 great movies leaving Netflix in September.‘Casino’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1‘Casino’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1The “Goodfellas” team of director Martin Scorsese, writer Nicholas Pileggi and stars Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci reunited five years later to tell the true story of Sam “Ace” Rothstein, the numbers whiz turned casino boss whose Vegas empire was undone by his inflated hubris and misplaced loyalty. Its contemporary critics widely dismissed “Casino” as a lesser “Goodfellas,” but the passage of time has revealed its true genius – as a bigger, bolder and more operatic exploration of that picture’s themes, expanded to include sly critiques of conspicuous capitalism and political corruption. And, Sharon Stone does career-best, Oscar-nominated work as the complicated woman who dazzles Rothstein into risking (and losing) it all.The “Goodfellas” team of director Martin Scorsese, writer Nicholas Pileggi and stars Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci reunited five years later to tell the true story of Sam “Ace” Rothstein, the numbers whiz turned casino boss whose Vegas empire was undone by his inflated hubris and misplaced loyalty. Its contemporary critics widely dismissed “Casino” as a lesser “Goodfellas,” but the passage of time has revealed its true genius – as a bigger, bolder and more operatic exploration of that picture’s themes, expanded to include sly critiques of conspicuous capitalism and political corruption. And, Sharon Stone does career-best, Oscar-nominated work as the complicated woman who dazzles Rothstein into risking (and losing) it all.‘Batman Begins’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1‘Batman Begins’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1The Batman series was dead and buried, still rattling with the embarrassed guffaws that greeted the 1997 effort “Batman & Robin,” when it was resurrected by brainy, stylish director Christopher Nolan for this 2005 hit. Shedding the groan-worthy one-liners and winking self-awareness that had come to dominate the character’s big screen incarnations, Nolan’s film plunged into the wounded psyche of its protagonist (played with intelligence and drive by Christian Bale), and did it so successfully that the “dark and gritty reboot” became something of a cliché in franchise filmmaking. Yet Nolan makes it play, offsetting the character’s navel-gazing with crispy executed action and absorbing performances from an enviable ensemble cast (including Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman and Liam Neeson).The Batman series was dead and buried, still rattling with the embarrassed guffaws that greeted the 1997 effort “Batman & Robin,” when it was resurrected by brainy, stylish director Christopher Nolan for this 2005 hit. Shedding the groan-worthy one-liners and winking self-awareness that had come to dominate the character’s big screen incarnations, Nolan’s film plunged into the wounded psyche of its protagonist (played with intelligence and drive by Christian Bale), and did it so successfully that the “dark and gritty reboot” became something of a cliché in franchise filmmaking. Yet Nolan makes it play, offsetting the character’s navel-gazing with crispy executed action and absorbing performances from an enviable ensemble cast (including Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman and Liam Neeson).[Interested in getting suggestions on what to watch? Sign up for the Watching newsletter, which we send out every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.][Interested in getting suggestions on what to watch? Sign up for the Watching newsletter, which we send out every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.]‘The Dark Knight’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1‘The Dark Knight’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1Three years later, Nolan and crew returned to Gotham to craft a rare sequel that surpasses the original. Much of its juice is provided by Heath Ledger’s Oscar-winning turn as The Joker, a frightening, take-no-prisoners snapshot of nihilistic evil. Ledger died between the picture’s completion and release, which casts an even more chilling pall over this dark piece of work. Nolan crafts some of the sharpest, tightest set pieces of the series to date – its opening bank robbery and nighttime prisoner transfer are astonishingly assured – while Bale continues to plum the depths of a character perching precariously on the ledge between hero and villain.Three years later, Nolan and crew returned to Gotham to craft a rare sequel that surpasses the original. Much of its juice is provided by Heath Ledger’s Oscar-winning turn as The Joker, a frightening, take-no-prisoners snapshot of nihilistic evil. Ledger died between the picture’s completion and release, which casts an even more chilling pall over this dark piece of work. Nolan crafts some of the sharpest, tightest set pieces of the series to date – its opening bank robbery and nighttime prisoner transfer are astonishingly assured – while Bale continues to plum the depths of a character perching precariously on the ledge between hero and villain.‘Dead Poets Society’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1‘Dead Poets Society’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1Every generation has a story of a gifted teacher who inspires their students to break out of the boxes they’ve been groomed for. This was that movie for young audiences of the ‘80s, in which director Peter Weir dramatizes the literary, cultural and ultimately social awakening of a group of young men in a strict New England prep school, circa 1959. Their guiding light is incoming English teacher John Keating, played by a restrained Robin Williams in a performance that was somewhat erroneously nominated for a best actor Oscar; it’s much more of a supporting turn in an ensemble cast, noteworthy now for early work by the likes of Ethan Hawke, Josh Charles and Robert Sean Leonard. Some of the tropes on parade here lean a tad musty, but this is a heartfelt and moving picture, with a closing scene that still raises goose bumps.Every generation has a story of a gifted teacher who inspires their students to break out of the boxes they’ve been groomed for. This was that movie for young audiences of the ‘80s, in which director Peter Weir dramatizes the literary, cultural and ultimately social awakening of a group of young men in a strict New England prep school, circa 1959. Their guiding light is incoming English teacher John Keating, played by a restrained Robin Williams in a performance that was somewhat erroneously nominated for a best actor Oscar; it’s much more of a supporting turn in an ensemble cast, noteworthy now for early work by the likes of Ethan Hawke, Josh Charles and Robert Sean Leonard. Some of the tropes on parade here lean a tad musty, but this is a heartfelt and moving picture, with a closing scene that still raises goose bumps.‘Forgetting Sarah Marshall’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1‘Forgetting Sarah Marshall’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1Valuable supporting player and TV standout Jason Segel made the leap to leading man with this 2008 romantic comedy, which he also wrote. The film also established co-stars and television vets Mila Kunis and Kristen Bell as big-screen material. True to the template of its producer Judd Apatow, it tells the story of a lovable schlub whose heartbreak prompts an emotional spiral, followed by a rescue by the girl of his dreams. But Segel’s screenplay breaks out of the formula thanks to its refreshing weirdness and keen sense of observation, as well as its ace supporting cast, which also includes Russell Brand as a brazenly bizarre pop star, Jonah Hill as his biggest fan and Bill Hader as Segel’s stepbrother and ill-equipped adviser.Valuable supporting player and TV standout Jason Segel made the leap to leading man with this 2008 romantic comedy, which he also wrote. The film also established co-stars and television vets Mila Kunis and Kristen Bell as big-screen material. True to the template of its producer Judd Apatow, it tells the story of a lovable schlub whose heartbreak prompts an emotional spiral, followed by a rescue by the girl of his dreams. But Segel’s screenplay breaks out of the formula thanks to its refreshing weirdness and keen sense of observation, as well as its ace supporting cast, which also includes Russell Brand as a brazenly bizarre pop star, Jonah Hill as his biggest fan and Bill Hader as Segel’s stepbrother and ill-equipped adviser.‘Ghostbusters’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1‘Ghostbusters’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1One of the most reliable chestnuts of classic comedies was the ghost story, and this 1984 megahit from director Ivan Reitman falls well within that tradition. As a trio of scientists who team up to investigate (and exterminate) the considerable paranormal presences of ‘80s New York, Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis establish the personalities and rhythms of a classic comedy team, while surrounding themselves with jaw-dropping special effects that service the jokes, rather than vice versa. Full of quotable dialogue and iconic images, this was one of the biggest comedies of its era, and deservedly so.One of the most reliable chestnuts of classic comedies was the ghost story, and this 1984 megahit from director Ivan Reitman falls well within that tradition. As a trio of scientists who team up to investigate (and exterminate) the considerable paranormal presences of ‘80s New York, Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis establish the personalities and rhythms of a classic comedy team, while surrounding themselves with jaw-dropping special effects that service the jokes, rather than vice versa. Full of quotable dialogue and iconic images, this was one of the biggest comedies of its era, and deservedly so.‘It Might Get Loud’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1‘It Might Get Loud’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1Director Davis Guggenheim (“An Inconvenient Truth”) assembles three generations of influential rock guitarists – Jimmy Page, Jack White and U2’s The Edge – for this documentary of shoptalk, biography and lots and lots of music. At its outset, White confesses his plan “to trick these guys into teaching me all of their tricks,” and by eavesdropping on their little summit, Guggenheim’s cameras allow us to do the same, sharing their influences, histories and (occasionally conflicting) philosophies. More than hagiography, it’s a celebration of the power of music, and of the joyful noise you can make with a cheap electric guitar.Director Davis Guggenheim (“An Inconvenient Truth”) assembles three generations of influential rock guitarists – Jimmy Page, Jack White and U2’s The Edge – for this documentary of shoptalk, biography and lots and lots of music. At its outset, White confesses his plan “to trick these guys into teaching me all of their tricks,” and by eavesdropping on their little summit, Guggenheim’s cameras allow us to do the same, sharing their influences, histories and (occasionally conflicting) philosophies. More than hagiography, it’s a celebration of the power of music, and of the joyful noise you can make with a cheap electric guitar.‘Man on Wire’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1‘Man on Wire’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 1James Marsh’s 2008 Academy Award winner for best documentary tells the exhilarating story of French daredevil Philippe Petit, whose team of friends and accomplices sneaked into the World Trade Center one night in 1974 and spent the night running a high-wire between the Twin Towers, so Petit could dazzle downtown New York with an early morning tightrope walk. Marsh ingeniously meshes archival footage and contemporary interviews with stylish re-enactments, framing Petit’s daring feat as a heist movie where the payoff is the possibility of death. A thrilling and fascinating film, and a quiet valentine to the vanished skyscrapers.James Marsh’s 2008 Academy Award winner for best documentary tells the exhilarating story of French daredevil Philippe Petit, whose team of friends and accomplices sneaked into the World Trade Center one night in 1974 and spent the night running a high-wire between the Twin Towers, so Petit could dazzle downtown New York with an early morning tightrope walk. Marsh ingeniously meshes archival footage and contemporary interviews with stylish re-enactments, framing Petit’s daring feat as a heist movie where the payoff is the possibility of death. A thrilling and fascinating film, and a quiet valentine to the vanished skyscrapers.‘Before the Devil Knows You’re Dead’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 15‘Before the Devil Knows You’re Dead’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 15Director Sidney Lumet (“Network,” “Dog Day Afternoon,” “12 Angry Men”) capped off a fifty-year filmmaking career with this 2007 caper drama, released four years before his death. Philip Seymour Hoffman and Ethan Hawke are beautifully matched as ill-tempered brothers, both in desperate need of cash, who attempt to stage a robbery of the family jewelry store – a bad idea even if executed perfectly, which it is not. Albert Finney is staggeringly good as their perpetually disappointed father, while Marisa Tomei finds the right, difficult notes for her work as Hoffman’s wife (and Hawke’s girlfriend). It’s a tough and uncompromising swan song from one of the true modern masters.Director Sidney Lumet (“Network,” “Dog Day Afternoon,” “12 Angry Men”) capped off a fifty-year filmmaking career with this 2007 caper drama, released four years before his death. Philip Seymour Hoffman and Ethan Hawke are beautifully matched as ill-tempered brothers, both in desperate need of cash, who attempt to stage a robbery of the family jewelry store – a bad idea even if executed perfectly, which it is not. Albert Finney is staggeringly good as their perpetually disappointed father, while Marisa Tomei finds the right, difficult notes for her work as Hoffman’s wife (and Hawke’s girlfriend). It’s a tough and uncompromising swan song from one of the true modern masters.‘A Star is Born’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 15‘A Star is Born’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 15Here’s a case of unfortunate timing, as many viewers will presumably be on the lookout for earlier versions of “A Star is Born” when the new and fourth remake starring Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga hits theaters later this year. But there’s nothing wrong with preparing ahead of time. Barbra Streisand and Kris Kristofferson take over the roles played by Judy Garland and James Mason (and Janet Gaynor and Frederic March before them), as a young star on the rise and the established name she falls in love with just as his descent begins. This iteration is curdled by a bit of ‘70s cheese, but the broad strokes of the story remain affecting and poignant, and Streisand’s songs (particularly the love theme “Evergreen”) maintain their power.Here’s a case of unfortunate timing, as many viewers will presumably be on the lookout for earlier versions of “A Star is Born” when the new and fourth remake starring Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga hits theaters later this year. But there’s nothing wrong with preparing ahead of time. Barbra Streisand and Kris Kristofferson take over the roles played by Judy Garland and James Mason (and Janet Gaynor and Frederic March before them), as a young star on the rise and the established name she falls in love with just as his descent begins. This iteration is curdled by a bit of ‘70s cheese, but the broad strokes of the story remain affecting and poignant, and Streisand’s songs (particularly the love theme “Evergreen”) maintain their power.‘Moonrise Kingdom’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 16‘Moonrise Kingdom’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 16Wes Anderson’s charming 2012 adventure-comedy follows a pair of young lovers (Jared Gilman and Kara Hayward) who attempt to run away from home together, tossing together a motley search party that includes parents, police, social services and Boy Scout masters. This rowdy and vast ensemble piece could have easily slipped from Anderson’s control – particularly considering the strong onscreen personalities of its cast, which includes Edward Norton, Bruce Willis, Frances McDormand, Bill Murray and Tilda Swinton. But his evocative script (written with Roman Coppola) finds a through-line that runs between all of these characters: the longing of love and the inevitability of disappointment. A sweet and inventive movie, with an abundance of honest laughs.Wes Anderson’s charming 2012 adventure-comedy follows a pair of young lovers (Jared Gilman and Kara Hayward) who attempt to run away from home together, tossing together a motley search party that includes parents, police, social services and Boy Scout masters. This rowdy and vast ensemble piece could have easily slipped from Anderson’s control – particularly considering the strong onscreen personalities of its cast, which includes Edward Norton, Bruce Willis, Frances McDormand, Bill Murray and Tilda Swinton. But his evocative script (written with Roman Coppola) finds a through-line that runs between all of these characters: the longing of love and the inevitability of disappointment. A sweet and inventive movie, with an abundance of honest laughs.‘Iris’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 24‘Iris’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 24The penultimate film from documentarian Albert Maysles (“Grey Gardens,” “Gimme Shelter”) is a witty, engaging profile of Iris Apfel, then 93 years old, an interior designer and textile entrepreneur whose funky fashion sense and artist’s eye turned her into an unlikely style icon. Maysles tells her remarkable story from top to bottom, but as is his style, the most enjoyable sequences of the film are those of observation – in which he follows his subject through closets, storage units, and marketplaces, watching as she shops, tells stories, haggles over prices and shares her secrets.The penultimate film from documentarian Albert Maysles (“Grey Gardens,” “Gimme Shelter”) is a witty, engaging profile of Iris Apfel, then 93 years old, an interior designer and textile entrepreneur whose funky fashion sense and artist’s eye turned her into an unlikely style icon. Maysles tells her remarkable story from top to bottom, but as is his style, the most enjoyable sequences of the film are those of observation – in which he follows his subject through closets, storage units, and marketplaces, watching as she shops, tells stories, haggles over prices and shares her secrets.‘The Imitation Game’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 28‘The Imitation Game’Leaving Netflix: Sept. 28Benedict Cumberbatch and Keira Knightley star in this 2014 biopic of British mathematician Alan Turing, who went to work as a German code-cracker in World War II and, in the process, created a machine that many consider the first incarnation of the modern computer. Cumberbatch (whose performance netted one of the film’s eight Oscar nominations) adroitly conveys the tortured brilliance of Turing, who helped save his country, and was later prosecuted by it for his homosexuality. Director Morten Tyldum’s efficient direction captures the immediacy and intensity of its subject’s work, yet cleverly folds in his later mistreatment as tragic counterpoint. “The Imitation Game” never quite explodes the conventions of the big-screen biopic, but it’s a sleek, well-made example of the form.Benedict Cumberbatch and Keira Knightley star in this 2014 biopic of British mathematician Alan Turing, who went to work as a German code-cracker in World War II and, in the process, created a machine that many consider the first incarnation of the modern computer. Cumberbatch (whose performance netted one of the film’s eight Oscar nominations) adroitly conveys the tortured brilliance of Turing, who helped save his country, and was later prosecuted by it for his homosexuality. Director Morten Tyldum’s efficient direction captures the immediacy and intensity of its subject’s work, yet cleverly folds in his later mistreatment as tragic counterpoint. “The Imitation Game” never quite explodes the conventions of the big-screen biopic, but it’s a sleek, well-made example of the form.Read more: The Best 100 Movies on NetflixRead more: The Best 100 Movies on NetflixRead our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing.