AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott TobiasEvery month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of TV shows and movies to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for February, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes schedules without giving notice.‘Back to the Future’Starts streaming: Feb. 1Netflix is adding all three “Back to the Future” movies at the beginning of February, but the first remains a high-water mark of blockbuster filmmaking, both a technical marvel and an exquisitely crafted mix of screwball comedy and science fiction. The director Robert Zemeckis and his longtime screenwriting partner Bob Gale have an appreciation for the mechanics of the form, those tiny gears and springs that make complicated storytelling look effortless. There’s plenty of fun to be had in watching Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) go back to the ‘50s to save his scientist friend (Christopher Lloyd) and play matchmaker to his own parents, but “Back to the Future” is also an intricately worked-out time travel movie.‘Nocturnal Animals’Starts streaming: Feb. 1For his follow-up to the impeccable 2009 debut feature “A Single Man,” the designer turned director Tom Ford stirred some controversy with “Nocturnal Animals,” a neo-noir that opens with a much-talked-about montage of women dancing in the nude and gets more provocative from there. The extreme archness of Ford’s style proves a good match for the material, a matryoshka doll of narratives about an art gallery owner (Amy Adams) whose first husband (Jake Gyllenhaal) surprises her with a manuscript of his novel. Michael Shannon is particularly good in the story-within-a-story as a West Texas detective assigned to sort through a grisly kidnapping and murder case.‘Schindler’s List’Starts streaming: Feb. 1After surfacing in theaters last year for its 25th anniversary, Steven Spielberg’s Holocaust drama arrives on Netflix as a timely reminder of the human potential for evil and its equal capacity for courage and compassion. Shooting in a black and white that’s alternately stark and lustrous, Spielberg looks at history through the complicated lens of a German businessman (Liam Neeson) who staffs a Krakow factory with mostly Jewish workers and succeeds in protecting them from extermination once the SS comes around. Ralph Fiennes gives a chilling performance as an SS second lieutenant who oversees the construction of a concentration camp at Krakow and brings in captives from liquidated Jewish ghettos.‘The Lego Batman Movie’Starts streaming: Feb. 1After Tim Burton and Christopher Nolan moved the Caped Crusader in an increasingly dark direction — to say nothing of the outright drudgery of Ben Affleck in “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice” — the Batman character really needed to lighten up a bit. “The Lego Batman Movie” does the great service of taking him down a peg, with a gravel-voiced Will Arnett playing a vain, egomaniacal jerk who doesn’t work well with others and wants to take all the credit for himself. As with all the Lego movies, this one is chockablock with pop culture references and playroom action sequences, but it carries a well-realized theme about the value of friendship and teamwork, and how real heroes don’t have to go it alone.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]‘Velvet Buzzsaw’Starts streaming: Feb. 1Five years after teaming up for “Nightcrawler,” their searing critique of if-it-bleeds-it-leads journalism, the director Dan Gilroy and Jake Gyllenhaal have reunited for the art-world satire “Velvet Buzzsaw,” which arrives on Netflix less than a week after its Sundance premiere. The macabre premise sees an art critic (Gyllenhaal) and an influential gallery owner (Rene Russo) descend on a collection of paintings from a dead artist who had wanted them destroyed. Instead, the paintings are literally destroying the lives of those who are buying and selling them for outrageous fees.‘Won’t You Be My Neighbor?’Starts streaming: Feb. 1For those who grew up watching “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood” from cribs and playpens, Morgan Neville’s documentary about Fred Rogers is an insta-cry, tapping into memories from an age before creating memories was possible. But even younger generations should find plenty to appreciate about “Won’t You Be My Neighbor?,” which paints Rogers as a friendly radical who broke every television rule to speak directly to children. Rejecting all commercial considerations, Rogers held theme weeks on divorce, poverty and death, and offered gentle guidance for his most vulnerable viewers.‘The 40-Year-Old Virgin’Starts streaming: Feb. 6It didn’t seem revolutionary at the time, but when Judd Apatow’s “The 40-Year-Old Virgin” slipped into theaters in 2005, it changed the landscape of studio comedy, introducing a gallery of rising stars and a producer/director whose imprimatur would dominate film and television, and putting a new premium on improv-heavy ensembles and huge comic set pieces. As a film, it’s still a sweet and hilarious upending of the ‘80s-style teen sex comedy, casting Steve Carell as a middle-age bachelor who has yet to be deflowered. Apatow and company would run the theme of arrested adolescence into the ground in the years to come, but the earnestness underpinning Carell’s relationship to his buddies (Paul Rudd, Seth Rogen and Romany Malco) and his more experienced girlfriend (Catherine Keener) counteracts the juvenilia.‘High Flying Bird’Starts streaming: Feb. 8Steven Soderbergh’s latest experiment in iPhone filmmaking takes a stripped-down approach to the wheeling and dealing of professional basketball. Written by Tarell Alvin McCraney, who scripted “Moonlight,” “High Flying Bird” takes place during a lockout that’s draining millions from the sport. André Holland stars as a sports agent who devises an unconventional and disruptive plan around his new blue-chip rookie client. At a time when the real N.B.A. is thriving, Soderbergh and McCraney work to expose the racial and economic dynamics of the league, which favor the priorities and pocketbooks of white owners over the mostly black athletes who drive ticket sales.‘Paddleton’Starts streaming: Feb. 22Another from the Sundance-to-Netflix pipeline, “Paddleton” reunites co-writer and star Mark Duplass and the director Alex Lehmann, who worked together on the stellar coming-home drama “Blue Jay.” Though it addresses the issue of assisted suicide, “Paddleton” is another low-key Duplass production that’s more about relationships than politics, focusing on the bond between a terminally ill layabout (Duplass) and his neighbor (Ray Romano) in a crummy apartment building. The two have to travel a great distance to get the necessary drugs, which gives the film the shambling quality of a road movie, albeit one that pauses frequently to indulge the lifestyle of two middle-age slackers.‘Russian Doll’Starts streaming: Feb. 1From “Slums of Beverly Hills” to “Orange Is the New Black,” Natasha Lyonne has specialized in playing hot messes, beating back misfortune with acerbic wit and self-deprecation. Lyonne’s highly anticipated new series “Russian Doll,” which she created with Amy Poehler and Leslye Headland, takes those qualities to dark new extremes, casting her as a panicked young woman stuck in a grisly “Groundhog Day” scenario. Every night she goes to the same New York City party, and every night she dies in some horrific fashion. What lesson is the universe trying to teach her? Presumably the show will have the answer.‘One Day at a Time’: Season 3Starts streaming: Feb. 8One of the benefits of Netflix and its niche-driven programming is that the standard models for successful television shows are thrown out the window and past trends can be revisited. Norman Lear’s original series “One Day at a Time” hailed from an era of socially conscious entertainment that has long since passed. Its Netflix revival, built around a Cuban-American family in Los Angeles, has successfully carried the same spirit into the issues of the day. If the third season is anything like the first two, it will draw laughter and tears from the everyday issues facing a household with two matriarchs: a single mother and nurse (Justina Machado) who suffers from PTSD from her time in the military, and her feisty mother, played by the legendary Rita Moreno.‘Dating Around’Starts streaming: Feb. 14Let’s be absolutely clear about this: It’s likely that “Dating Around” will be a trashy television show, an attempt by Netflix to enter the sordid and inauthentic world of reality romance. That doesn’t mean it won’t be a guilty pleasure. Each episode of “Dating Around” follows a single person through five blind dates, with the hope that one of them will yield a second date. It premieres on Valentine’s Day, for maximum compare-and-contrast to viewers’ real-life love connections.‘Dirty John’Starts streaming: Feb. 14Hosted by the Los Angeles Times reporter Christopher Goffard, “Dirty John” was a popular true-crime podcast for a reason: It tells the bizarre and frightening story of a wealthy middle-age interior decorator who was seduced and nearly destroyed by a violent scam artist. Coming to Netflix shortly after a successful run on Bravo, the TV adaptation loses some of the podcast’s ambience and storytelling economy, but Connie Britton is ideally cast as a big-hearted woman with bad taste in men, and Eric Bana is solid as the fake anesthesiologist who takes advantage. Juno Temple and Julia Garner co-star as her skeptical adult daughters.‘Larry Charles’ Dangerous World of Comedy’Starts streaming: Feb. 15The bearded anarchist of the comedy world, Larry Charles is associated with some of the biggest names in the business. He worked with Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David on “Seinfeld” and the David offshoot “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” and directed Sacha Baron Cohen in “Borat,” Brüno” and “The Dictator.” Charles tends to favor acts of guerrilla humor, with lots of room for spontaneity and improvisation, and that sensibility seems quite likely to inform “Larry Charles’ Dangerous World of Comedy,” a four-part series that takes him to far-flung places to discover new talent. The word “dangerous” is key: Charles’s visits to countries including Russia, Iran, Nigeria and Turkey are intended to emphasize the value of laughter as a tool for survival.‘The Umbrella Academy’Starts streaming: Feb. 15Based on Gerard Way and Gabriel Bá’s quirky superhero comic, “The Umbrella Academy” has a grabby premise: In October 1989, 43 women gave birth despite having not been pregnant when the day began. Seven of these special children were adopted by a billionaire and placed in a school designed to develop and harness their powers. The children disbanded as teenagers, but circumstances have brought them back together in their thirties as a dysfunctional surrogate family trying to save the world. Ellen Page, Tom Hopper, Robert Sheehan and Mary J. Blige are among the bigger names in the cast, and its Canadian-American showrunner Steve Blackman brings a wealth of genre experience on shows like “Bones,” “Fargo” and Netflix’s “Altered Carbon.”Also of interest: “E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial” (Feb. 1), “Snow White and the Huntsman” (Feb. 1), U-571 (Feb. 1), “Romance Is a Bonus Book” (Feb. 2), “Jaws” (Feb. 6), “Kevin Hart’s Guide to Black History” (Feb. 8), “The Breaker Upperers” (Feb. 15), “The Town” (Feb. 15), “The Drug King” (Feb. 21), “Chef’s Table”: Season 6 (Feb. 22).Advertisement