AdvertisementSupported byBy Alastair MacaulayDeath has not diminished the American modern-dance choreographer Merce Cunningham (1919-2009), at least in terms of his dances. Unknown films have been discovered; lost dances have been revived.It’s a perfect sequel to the triumphal treatment Cunningham received in France, where he was given his most ecstatic ovations. Compagnie CNDC-Angers/Robert Swinston, appearing at the Joyce Theater until Sunday, is the third French ensemble to bring Cunningham back to New York this year. It’s more than welcome: It adds to our knowledge of Cunningham’s mastery.His bewildering diversity is the main point of the triple bill brought by this Angers company: The centerpiece is “Place” (1966), a work not danced after 1971 until this troupe revived it in 2015. Unfolding like a novel, it’s a dark drama of psychological alienation. One man (Gianni Joseph, in the role Cunningham danced) is seen as part of a group of eight but also separate, an outsider. The group is seen in several moods — social couple dances, formal tableaus; the protagonist’s isolation (prefiguring several later Cunningham works, notably “Quartet” and “Fabrications”) is ambiguous. But he ends alone, in a large plastic bag, thrashing as if in breakdown.Bravely, the three pieces are run in quick succession, with only brief pauses in between. (The Cunningham company would have had intermissions.) It works: The program unfolds in continual suspense. The opener, “Inlets 2” (1983), is a Cunningham classic, a pure dance work that mysteriously evokes the nothing-happening calm of a quiet landscape inhabited only by wildlife. How is this done? There are a few hints of animal or bird life in individual movements (wing flutters, foot pawings). But the atmosphere derives mainly, and beautifully, from the rhythm. And stillness recurs, with dance energy radiating even in immobility.The dances of “How to Pass, Kick, Fall and Run” (1965) release zippy, funny, absurdist high spirits, with tripping footwork and bubbling jumps. Just as memorable is John Cage’s accompaniment: a spoken collage of anecdotes that makes hilarious absurdity inseparable from Zen philosophy.The Angers performers are weighted, smoldering, gleeful — light years from the light, fleet, incisive dancing the Lyon dancers showed last month in “Summerspace” (1958). I can maybe imagine them dancing “Sounddance” (1975), which the Ballet de Lorraine performed here in February, but with quite different inflections — less elegant, more brusque. All three styles are admirable, all differently true to the spirit of the work. And the Angers dancers look entirely altered from one piece to the next. They’re especially good — liberated — in “How To,” with Lucas Viallefond a particular source of madcap zest in Cunningham’s old role.The Angers troupe was in New York before, in 2015, when it danced a 75-minute Cunningham anthology, “Event,” at the Joyce. Since then, the dancers’ grasp of Cunningham has deepened. There’s good cause for this: Robert Swinston, the company’s director, was with the Cunningham company for 36 years as an outstanding dancer and was its dance director and vigilant custodian after Cunningham’s death.“Inlets,” the John Cage score used for “Inlets 2,” sounds totally crackpot. Water is swirled in a selection of conch shells near microphones. If you hear it, it becomes the ideally atmospheric accompaniment for Cunningham’s nature study, with plops and glugs like marshland noises. Laura Kuhn, director of the John Cage Trust, is one of the conch players; she’s also perfect — lucid, wry — as one of the “How To” readers.“Inlets 2” is one Cunningham-Cage view of Zen: Pay attention to the world beyond man. “How To” is another face: Laugh and accept life’s paradoxes.An earlier version of this article misstated the title of a dance. It is “How to Pass, Kick, Fall and Run,” not “How to Kick, Pass, Fall and Run.”Follow Alastair Macaulay on Twitter: @AMacaulayNYTCompagnie CNDC-Angers/Robert Swinston Through April 9 at the Joyce Theater, Manhattan; 212-242-0800, joyce.org.Advertisement