AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.JULIA BULLOCK at the Metropolitan Museum of Art (Jan. 16-17, 8 p.m.). Bullock’s extraordinary, socially conscious residency at the Met continues with “Perle Noire,” programs of Josephine Baker songs arranged with typical imagination by the composer Tyshawn Sorey. Directed by Zack Winokur, with text by Claudia Rankine and choreography by Michael Schumacher, the programs are set on the steps of the museum’s Great Hall and feature the International Contemporary Ensemble.212-535-7710, metmuseum.orgCHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER at the Rose Studio (Jan. 17, 6:30 and 9 p.m.). New music from a series that has shaken off a previously crusty image, with the Escher String Quartet and the pianist Gilles Vonsattel on hand for Per Norgard’s String Quartet No. 10, William Bolcom’s Suite for Violin and Cello, Ed Bennett’s “For Marcel Dzama,” and “All Roads” by Anthony Cheung.212-875-5788, chambermusicsociety.orgSABINE DEVIEILHE at Weill Recital Hall (Jan. 17, 7:30 p.m.). Returns might be available for this recital by a distinctive, up-and-coming soprano, who partners with the pianist Mathieu Pordoy for music by Debussy, Poulenc, Delage, Ravel and Roussel. If you can find a ticket, snap it up. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgEKMELES at the Crypt of the Church of the Intercession (Jan. 17, 7:30 p.m.). “Madrigals and Animals,” the title of this concert from a consistently enlightening vocal ensemble, includes three United States premieres. Amid Karola Obermüller’s “mass:distance:time,” Claus-Steffen Mahnkopf’s “void – un delitto italiano” and Carola Bauckholt’s “Instinkt,” note in particular the first American performance of Salvatore Sciarrino’s “12 Madrigali.”ekmeles.comNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Jan. 16, 7:30 p.m.; through Jan. 22). Jaap Van Zweden is back on the Philharmonic’s podium this week, and the main event is Rachmaninoff’s Symphony No. 2, a real test of whether the conductor’s usually hard-driven style can work in predominantly lyrical works. Also on the bill is Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No. 2, with Yefim Bronfman at the keyboard.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (Jan. 12, 7 p.m.). On a program perhaps most notable for the appearance of the sensitive pianist Javier Perianes in Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 27, there’s also Mozart’s Symphony No. 33, an arrangement of Dvorak’s Bagatelles by Dennis Russell Davies and James Matheson’s “Still Life.”212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org‘PELLÉAS ET MÉLISANDE’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Jan. 15, 7:30 p.m.; through Jan. 31). Jonathan Miller’s production of Debussy’s seductive, allusive opera returns, but unfortunately for only five shows. The Met’s music director, Yannick Nézet-Séguin, conducts all but one of them (Derrick Inouye leads the performance on Jan. 31), with a cast that includes Isabel Leonard as Mélisande, Paul Appleby as Pelléas, Kyle Ketelsen as Golaud, Marie-Nicole Lemieux as Geneviève and Ferruccio Furlanetto as Arkel.212-362-6000, metopera.orgFor an overview of January and February’s cultural events, click here.Advertisement