AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.THOMAS ADÈS AND KIRILL GERSTEIN at Zankel Hall (March 13, 7:30 p.m.). This noted composer and the pianist he has entrusted with his newest concerto join forces for this four-hand concert. Along with a recent piece by Adès, a two-piano concert paraphrase on his early opera “Powder Her Face,” there’s music by Debussy, Stravinsky, Lutoslawski and Ravel. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (March 13, 7:30 p.m.; through March 19). Manfred Honeck returns to the Philharmonic’s podium, one from which he has consistently impressed as one of the orchestra’s most important guest conductors. The program is all Mozart, with the Piano Concerto No. 27 performed by Richard Goode, before a special take on the Requiem, framed by the Masonic Funeral Music and “Ave Verum Corpus.” The vocal soloists are Joélle Harvey, Megan Mikailovna Samarin, Ben Bliss and Matthew Rose, backed by the Westminster Symphonic Choir. 212-875-5656, nyphil.orgPHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (March 8, 8 p.m.). Yannick Nézet-Séguin conducts Schubert’s Symphony No. 9, Nico Muhly’s “Liar” (a suite from his opera “Marnie”) and Mendelssohn’s Piano Concerto No. 1, with Jan Lisiecki at the keyboard. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]PHILHARMONIA BAROQUE at Alice Tully Hall (March 12, 7:30 p.m.). This esteemed San Francisco period-instrument ensemble, led by Nicholas McGegan, is joined by the singers Anne Sofie von Otter and Anthony Roth Costanzo for Handel arias, a suite from Purcell’s “The Fairy Queen,” music by Arvo Part and even a world premiere from Caroline Shaw. 212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/great-performersPHILHARMONIA ORCHESTRA at David Geffen Hall (March 10, 3 p.m.; March 11, 8 p.m.). As part of his takeover of the San Francisco Symphony, Esa-Pekka Salonen will give up his post as the principal conductor of this London ensemble — but what a productive partnership it has been. On Sunday they perform Bruckner’s Symphony No. 7. On Monday the main event is Salonen’s own Cello Concerto, with Truls Mork as the soloist, in between Sibelius’s “The Oceanides” and Stravinsky’s “The Firebird.” 212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/great-performersBEATRICE RANA at Zankel Hall (March 12, 7:30 p.m.). If you’re surprised that this immensely talented young pianist has waited this long to have her New York recital debut, then that makes it all the more anticipated. Chopin’s Op. 25 Études are on the bill, as well as Ravel’s “Miroirs” and Agosti’s transcriptions from Stravinsky’s “The Firebird.” 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org‘DAS RHEINGOLD’ at the Metropolitan Opera (March 9, 1 p.m.; March 14, 8 p.m.). The Met has worked hard to improve Robert Lepage’s production since it was last seen in the house, in the hope that technical improvements might ameliorate its other woes. See for yourself in these two performances of the first drama of Wagner’s “Ring.” There are potential high points among the cast: Norbert Ernst and Gerhard Siegel will likely be ideal as Loge and Mime; Günther Groissböck excels in everything he sings, including Fasolt; and there’s the prospect of Jamie Barton’s Fricka, too. Greer Grimsley is Wotan; Tomasz Konieczny is Alberich. Philippe Jordan, an experienced Wagnerian, conducts. 212-362-6000, metopera.org‘SAMSON ET DALILA’ at the Metropolitan Opera (March 13, 8 p.m.; through March 28). Darko Tresnjak’s “inert, old-fashioned new production” of Saint-Saëns’s opera — as my colleague Anthony Tommasini called it — returns after its run at the start of the season, but this time it has the all-conquering mezzo-soprano Anita Rachvelishvili to liven it up. Aleksandrs Antonenko is Samson to her Dalila, with Laurent Naouri returning as the High Priest, Tomasz Konieczny as Abimélech and Günther Groissböck as the Old Hebrew. Mark Elder is on the podium. 212-362-6000, metopera.orgAdvertisement