AdvertisementSupported byBy Sean L. McCarthyOur guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘BATTLE OF THE DIVAS’ at Littlefield (April 9, 7:30 p.m.). The subtitle for this show, hosted by Matteo Lane and Christi Chiello, pretty much nails its concept: “If Roast Battle and Debate Club Had a Super Gay Baby!” Each showdown features two divas, represented not only by drag queens performing as them, but also by stand-ups working as their proxies. This time around, Marcia Belsky will defend the honor of Cardi B against Rob Haze, who’ll speak on behalf of Nicki Minaj. The audience will decide who wins. littlefieldnyc.comLOYISO GOLA at the SoHo Playhouse (April 10-14, 7 p.m.; through April 21). Gola, who starred on his own late-night TV series in his native South Africa, recorded his first American stand-up special in 2016 in Bushwick, Brooklyn. He followed that up with a half-hour performance for the Netflix series “Comedians of the World,” which debuted on New Year’s Day. His latest one-man show, “Unlearning,” arrives in SoHo for a brief Off Broadway run. 212-691-1555, sohoplayhouse.com‘NICE TRY WITH MICHAEL KOSTA’ at New York Comedy Club East Village (April 9, 8 p.m.). A correspondent for “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah,” Kosta serves as the headlining act for this new weekly showcase. Every Tuesday night, Maddy Smith hosts as stand-ups test out new bits and give the audience a chance to see the joke-writing process in action. 212-696-5233, newyorkcomedyclub.com [Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]REGULAR COMEDY at Murmrr Ballroom (April 10, 9 p.m.). There’s nothing regular about this lineup of stand-ups or the location. Maeve Higgins hosts performances by David Cross, Gary Gulman, Aparna Nancherla, Rosebud Baker and Daniel Simonsen at this ballroom inside the Union Temple of Brooklyn near Grand Army Plaza. murmrr.comDOLPH ZIGGLER at Carolines on Broadway (April 5-6, 11:59 p.m.). WrestleMania 35 throws down on Sunday across the Hudson River at MetLife Stadium, so its proximity might leave the Big Apple feeling even bigger and brawnier this weekend. For the unofficial preparty, Ziggler, a professional wrestler and funnyman, hosts “DZ & Friends” at this Times Square comedy club over the weekend. Meanwhile, the comedian Matt Little (you’ve most likely heard of him thanks to his “Pizza Rat” video) is presenting the World Comedyweight Championship title to whoever wins “The Squared Circle” at the Brick in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, on Friday night. One of the competitors is the stand-up Casey Jost, brother of the “Saturday Night Live” star Colin Jost (who is appearing at WrestleMania). And if you like wrestling parodies, there’s “Xtremely Serious Wrestling” at the PIT Loft, also on Friday night. But the realest of deals is happening at Carolines. 212-757-4100, carolines.comAdvertisement