AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.EL GRAN COMBO AND LA SONORA PONCEÑA at Radio City Music Hall (Feb. 16, 8 p.m.). That two of the world’s most enduring and renowned salsa bands are booked at a theater with permanent seats is a bit of a head scratcher, but few performance spaces are large enough to accommodate the legions of fans both El Gran Combo and La Sonora Ponceña have accrued during their decades of performance. Both bands hail from Puerto Rico; the former was founded in 1962 by Rafael Ithier, who still leads it today, while the latter was established in 1954 — eight years after its current leader, Enrique Lucca Jr., was born. Expect plenty of dancing in the aisles. 212-465-6225, radiocity.comINTERPOL at Madison Square Garden (Feb. 16, 8 p.m.). This show is a homecoming for these indie stalwarts, who met at N.Y.U. and started making dark, stripped-down rock music in the late 1990s. Fifteen years after their breakthrough album “Antics” and on the heels of their 2018 release “Marauder,” Interpol is back at the Garden with a remarkable opening lineup that provides a good snapshot of alternative rock music today. You’ll want to get to the arena early to catch Snail Mail, the name under which the buzzy singer-songwriter Lindsey Jordan performs, and the breezy indie favorites Car Seat Headrest. 212-465-6741, msg.comMETRIC AND ZOÉ at Kings Theater (Feb. 18, 7 p.m.). The brash, synth-driven, dance-inspired rock of Toronto’s Metric has remained relatively constant over the 16 years since the band’s first studio album, “Old World Underground, Where Are You Now?” — the zeitgeist, though, has shifted dramatically. When they came onto the scene, Metric was surrounded by like-minded alternative rockers such as TV on the Radio and the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. But even as Metric’s music veers from the trend, they appear indefatigable; 2018’s “Art of Doubt” is a testament to their artistic vitality. The Mexican rock band Zoé, who have shown similar endurance over their nearly two decades at the forefront of their genre, co-headline this Brooklyn show. 718-856-5464, kingstheatre.comBOB MOULD BAND at Brooklyn Steel (Feb. 21, 8 p.m.). As the frontman for the bands Hüsker Dü and Sugar, this singer and guitarist found his niche with cathartic yet approachable rock jams. Hüsker Dü, who were active through most of the 1980s, have attained considerable retroactive renown for the way their blend of punk and alternative rock anticipated grunge. Their niche acclaim stands in stark contrast with Sugar, Mould’s band in the early 1990s, which had a brighter sound and hits on Billboard’s alternative charts. His latest release, “Sunshine Rock,” is almost like a blend of these two styles, combining the fierceness of Hüsker Dü with the optimism of Sugar. 888-929-7849, bowerypresents.comPANDA BEAR at Pioneer Works (Feb. 14-15, 7 p.m.). Animal Collective’s co-founder Noah Lennox has released six solo albums under this zoological alias, stretching out the band’s signature experimental, reverb-heavy dance music to include even more unexpected sounds and forms. Lennox’s most recent album, “Buoys,” eschews some of those ornate layers of synths and chaotic postproduction effects that have made his work so psychedelic and instead embraces straightforward songs that put his own, relatively unobscured voice front and center. Where his last album, “Panda Bear Meets the Grim Reaper,” had a harder edge, “Buoys” features gentle, acoustic songs that still have some unconventional filigree. 718-596-3001, pioneerworks.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]THE ’70S SOUL JAM VALENTINE’S CONCERT at the Beacon Theater (Feb. 16, 3 and 8 p.m.). It’s hard to think of a genre more explicitly associated with romance than the R&B and soul of the 1970s, with the lush arrangements and seductively slow tempos. Fittingly, some of the artists behind the era’s date-night-appropriate hits will gather for two Valentine’s Day-themed shows on the Upper West Side. Featured artists include the Philadelphia-based soul groups the Stylistics (“You Are Everything”), the Delfonics (“La-La Means I Love You”) and Blue Magic (“Sideshow”); the funk-inflected band Bloodstone (“Natural High”); and the quiet storm pioneers the Manhattans (“Kiss and Say Goodbye”). 212-465-6085, beacontheatre.comVINCE STAPLES at the Hammerstein Ballroom (Feb. 21, 8 p.m.). At 25 years old, this rapper from Long Beach, Calif., has made three critically acclaimed albums that flirt with rap’s avant-garde while retaining mainstream credibility. His music and his public persona — the sardonic Twitter star who wears his gang affiliation (Crips) and his Sprite endorsement on his sleeve with equal aplomb — suggest that this praise has not skewed his lucidity regarding the streets he grew up on and still uses as source material. His latest release, “FM!,” is a concise 22 minutes of songs that are as fun to listen to as they are thought-provoking. 212-279-7740, mc34.comNATALIE WEINERETHNIC HERITAGE ENSEMBLE at Nublu 151 (Feb. 21, 8 p.m.). A master percussionist and eminence of Chicago’s creative music scene, Kahil El’Zabar channels a deep sense of history into his music, coming away with something timeless and universal and enchanted. For over 40 years, he has led the Ethnic Heritage Ensemble, usually as a trio featuring a rotating cast of horn players and flutists. But he recently expanded it into a quartet, with Alex Harding on baritone saxophone, Corey Wilkes on trumpet and Ian Maksin on cello. At Nublu the band celebrates the release of “Be Heard,” which will be out in March on the audiophile Spiritmuse Records.nublu.netMORGAN GUERIN QUINTET at the Jazz Gallery (Feb. 15-16, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Though still in his early 20s, Guerin has already started to accrue a reputation as a jaw-dropping musical polymath. On Friday, he will play drums and bass in a quintet performing new, original music; on Saturday, he will again perform his own tunes with a five-piece band, but this time he will be on a saxophone, an electronic wind instrument and a synthesizer. If the music is anything like his two releases thus far (“The Saga” and “The Saga II”), it will be a broadly sourced form of contemporary electric fusion, centered on luminous, morphing textures and elegantly lyrical songwriting.646-494-3625, jazzgallery.nycKIRK KNUFFKE TRIO at Zinc Bar (Feb. 20, 7:30 and 9 p.m.). A cornetist, Knuffke has a strong sense of his instrument’s history and expressive range, but his playing seems always tinged with a playful optimism. He has been one of the most compelling sidemen on the New York scene for at least a decade now, and more recently he’s been quietly releasing a series of fascinating albums of his own. The most recent, “Witness,” found Knuffke teaming up with the operatic baritone Steven Herring, plus two fellow jazz improvisers. It was unlike any other album in recent memory — and at times utterly transporting. Here Knuffke appears in a trio featuring the bass guitarist Stomu Takeishi and the drummer Bill Goodwin.212-477-9462, zincjazz.comJOE LOVANO, DAVE LIEBMAN AND GREG OSBY at Birdland (Feb. 19-23, 8:30 and 11 p.m.). Three of the best saxophonists in straight-ahead jazz and its affiliated territories, Lovano (tenor saxophone), Liebman (soprano) and Osby (alto) join up this week with a trio of all-star side musicians: the pianist Phil Markowitz, the bassist Cecil McBee and the drummer Billy Hart. All six of these players have been among jazz’s most respected figures since at least the 1980s, and all continue to barrel forward creatively.212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.comDIANNE REEVES at the Rose Theater (Feb. 15-16, 8 p.m.). For the eighth year in a row, Reeves will headline Jazz at Lincoln Center’s main stage during Valentine’s Day weekend. She became a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master last year, adding a punctuation mark to a career already known to be one of the most distinguished in jazz. Her voice has the power and clarity of Sarah Vaughan’s, and her repertoire only continues to expand: Her most recent album, “Beautiful Life,” from 2014, which won a Grammy, included riveting, personalized renditions of tunes by Fleetwood Mac, Bob Marley and Esperanza Spalding, as well as some Reeves originals.212-721-6500, jazz.orgDAYNA STEPHENS QUARTET at the Village Vanguard (Feb. 19-24, 8:30 and 10:30 p.m.). A tenor saxophonist of svelte articulation and beaming tone, Stephens plays contemporary jazz with an emphasis on emotive clarity. His improvisations hold your attention thanks to careful, smart pacing, and Stephens’s willingness to sprinkle moments of simple beauty into his counterintuitive flights. This week is the 40-year-old saxophonist’s debut as a bandleader at the Village Vanguard, where he’s joined by Aaron Parks on piano, Ben Street on bass and Gregory Hutchinson on drums.212-255-4037, villagevanguard.comGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOAdvertisement