AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergOur guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.DOC FORTNIGHT 2019 at the Museum of Modern Art (through Feb. 28). The programmers of MoMA’s annual nonfiction festival have emphasized the work of female filmmakers, who constitute a significant number of the featured directors. Among the documentaries are “Where the Pavement Ends” (on Friday and Sunday), which explores the history of discriminatory racial policies in Ferguson, Mo., long before the fatal shooting of Michael Brown, and Heddy Honigmann’s “Buddy” (on Thursday), which follows guide dogs and their owners. 212-708-9400, moma.orgLIVING WITH THE DEAD: THE FILMS OF GEORGE A. ROMERO at BAM Rose Cinemas (Feb. 22-March 3). Few directors have made franchises as enduring as Romero’s zombie movies. Nor have many filmmakers — over many decades — so completely adapted their signature subject matter to new styles and times. “Night of the Living Dead” (on Friday, Saturday and Thursday) doubled as a commentary on 1960s racial tensions. The mall-set “Dawn of the Dead” (on Saturday and in a 3-D version on March 3) sent up mindless yuppie consumerism. “Land of the Dead” (on Sunday) revived the series for the Bush era in 2005, and was perhaps slightly ahead of the curve in indicting society’s widening wealth and power gaps. But BAM’s lineup hardly limits itself to the undead. With 16 features and a program of industrial films and commercials that Romero directed (on Wednesday), this retrospective is the most complete one to screen in New York since the auteur’s death in 2017. 718-636-4100, bam.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]NEIGHBORING SCENES: NEW LATIN AMERICAN CINEMA at the Film Society of Lincoln Center (Feb. 22-26). The most dogged of cinephiles will be willing to miss the Oscars to spend Sunday night watching “Our Time,” the new film from the Mexican provocateur Carlos Reygadas (“Post Tenebras Lux”) and the centerpiece of this year’s Neighboring Scenes. It charts a marriage disrupted when the wife (Natalia López) of a rancher and poet (Reygadas) has a fling with a hired hand — an affair that she believes her husband condones. That López and Reygadas are married in real life gives the film a riveting voyeuristic tension. Other titles screening include “Buy Me a Gun” (on Saturday), a Mexican-Colombian production billed as a cross between “Huckleberry Finn” and “Mad Max.”212-875-5601, filmlinc.org‘1900’ at Film Forum (Feb. 22-28). After “Last Tango in Paris,” Bernardo Bertolucci, who died in November, made what is either the most misguided folly or the least appreciated epic of 1970s cinema. It tells the story of two men born directly after Verdi’s death in 1901: Alfredo (Robert De Niro), the scion of an Italian landowning family, and Olmo (Gérard Depardieu), a bastard born to a clan of farmers in the landowners’ employ. They remain friends through World War II, despite Olmo’s Marxist skepticism of Alfredo and Alfredo’s fecklessness in the face of Fascists. (Donald Sutherland and Laura Betti play a couple attracted to the movement’s sadistic side.) As in Bertolucci films great (“The Conformist”) and terrible (“Luna”), the competing personal, operatic and social-realist impulses can be frustrating. Still, the cinematographer Vittorio Storaro didn’t shoot a dull frame in this full-length, 316-minute cut, which is screening with its Italian dialogue track.212-727-8110, filmforum.org‘WINTER KEPT US WARM’ at the Quad Cinema (Feb. 26, 7 p.m.). The title may only be familiar because of T. S. Eliot, but this low-budget, black-and-white debut feature, directed by David Secter, has its champions, who cite it as a landmark of Canadian low-budget cinema. Centered on the unvoiced yearning of two male students — a freshman and a senior — at the University of Toronto, the film is getting a rare screening in the Quad’s recurring Coming Out Again series. The noted Toronto filmmaker David Cronenberg is said to be a fan.212-255-2243, quadcinema.comAdvertisement