AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. (Aug. 24-25, 8 p.m.; Aug. 26, 2:30 p.m.). A big weekend in the Berkshires opens on Friday with Mahler’s Symphony No. 3, featuring Susan Graham as the vocalist and Andris Nelsons on the podium. On Saturday, there’s the Boston Symphony’s main centennial celebration of Leonard Bernstein, involving five conductors, an array of soloists and players from six other ensembles. The annual performance of Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9 follows on Sunday, led by Christoph Eschenbach. If all that’s not enough, note too that the unrelated but up-and-coming Berkshire Opera Festival’s “Rigoletto” opens on Saturday up the road in Pittsfield, with plenty of time to make it to the Bernstein festivities later that evening. 888-266-1200, bso.orgDAVID GREILSAMMER at National Sawdust (Aug. 25, 7 p.m.). This pianist has made a habit of interspersing a particular piece of music with pieces by other composers, perhaps most effectively in recitals of Scarlatti and Cage. Here he reprises a program heard last year at the Crypt Sessions, refracting Janacek’s “On an Overgrown Path” through works by Mozart, Froberger, Rebel, C. P. E. Bach and Ofer Pelz.646-799-8455, nationalsawdust.orgTAKA KIGAWA at Le Poisson Rouge (Aug. 27, 7 p.m.). Many of Mr. Kigawa’s most recent New York recitals have focused on one composer — either Boulez or Messiaen. But there’s a welcome spread to this one, which looks at three generations of composers: Luciano Berio, Beat Furrer, Akiki Yamane and Matthew Aucoin.212-505-3474, lpr.comLOCRIAN CHAMBER PLAYERS at Riverside Church (Aug. 24, 8 p.m.). It’s always worth hearing this plucky ensemble, which is dedicated to music written in the past decade — not least for the performance space’s 10th-floor views over the Hudson, which can occupy you at intermission. Works by Hanspeter Kyburz, Sebastian Currier, Sarah Kirkland Snider, David Feurzeig and David Macdonald are on the bill.locrian.org‘LULU’ at Lincoln Center Plaza (Aug. 29, 7:30 p.m.). The Metropolitan Opera’s big-screen Summer HD Festival, featuring its popular broadcasts, starts on Friday and runs through Labor Day. It includes high-definition showings of Renée Fleming’s last “Der Rosenkavalier” (Sept. 2, 7:15 p.m.) and Patrice Chéreau’s production of “Elektra” (Monday, 8 p.m.), but I’d grab one of the nearly 3,000 free seats for William Kentridge’s staging of Berg’s “Lulu,” filmed in 2015.212-362-6000, metopera.org‘LA TRAVIATA’ at Bryant Park (Aug. 28, 6 p.m.). New York City Opera presents a free, hourlong adaptation of Verdi’s classic tale of Violetta’s downfall. It’s the penultimate concert in the company’s outdoor season, which ends with “The Barber of Seville” on Sept. 17.nycopera.comAdvertisement