AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnSidney Lumet’s “Network” is on TCM. And it’s a night of Bourne and Bond.NETWORK (1976) 10:15 p.m. on TCM. A recent staged reimagining has given this Paddy Chayefsky satire of TV-obsessed America a new life on Broadway — but that doesn’t mean the original movie version has lost its bite. Directed by Sidney Lumet, the film follows Howard Beale (Peter Finch), a land mine of a news anchor who, after learning that he is to be fired, goes on live TV and tells the county that he plans to commit suicide on air. He doesn’t do it, but the episode garners high ratings, saving Beale’s job and shaping the tenor of his subsequent newscasts, which become increasingly intense. Faye Dunaway plays a network executive. Dunaway and Finch won Oscars for their performances, as did Beatrice Straight, for a supporting role, and Chayefsky, for his screenplay. The film now runs alongside the very kinds of programming it seeks to skewer.JASON BOURNE (2016) 7:44 p.m. and 10:04 p.m. on FXM. Throughout the 2000s, Matt Damon’s amnesiac ex-C.I.A. operative Jason Bourne captured attention with few words. The cold, often intimate violence dispatched by Damon’s quiet antihero in “The Bourne Identity” (2002), “The Bourne Supremacy” (2004) and “The Bourne Ultimatum” (2007) helped define action movies of the era. After nine years off, Damon returned in this continuation of the series. Its plot weaves in some global concerns from the time Bourne was away, including hacktivism, the growing influence of social media companies and mass surveillance.DIE ANOTHER DAY (2002) Stream on Netflix. The same year Jason Bourne arrived on the spy-movie scene to ramp up the violence and pare down excesses of the genre, Pierce Brosnan was firing rockets from an invisible car and fencing with an instructor played by Madonna in this, his final turn as James Bond. From its opening hovercraft chase to its grand-finale fight aboard an airplane, “Die Another Day” is about as over the top as possible. Halle Berry memorably stars opposite Brosnan as an N.S.A. agent. If this movie is too extravagant for your tastes, but you want more wisecracks than “Jason Bourne” makes, consider the decidedly darker CASINO ROYALE (2006), at 8 p.m. on Paramount Network; it features a Bond (Daniel Craig) for a post-Bourne world.TURN UP CHARLIE Stream on Netflix. The English actor and actual D.J. Idris Elba plays a washed-up English D.J. turned nanny in this new series. His character is recruited to look after Gabrielle (Frankie Hervey), an 11-year-old troublemaker. That unlikely pairing becomes a source of both laughs and sentimentality, Mike Hale wrote in his review for The New York Times. Hale noted that the show mixed “lachrymose family drama in with the odd-couple farce.” But, he added, “if you can live without seeing Idris Elba saying ‘I’m adorbs’ to an 11-year-old girl, you can live without ‘Turn Up Charlie.’”Advertisement