AdvertisementSupported byBy Mark BowdenMr. Bowden is a journalist and author, most recently of “Hue 1968.” He sees all superhero movies.Seven of the 11 top-grossing films of 2017 were superhero movies, based on characters first introduced in comic books.The top two grossing films so far this year have been “Black Panther” and “Avengers: Infinity War.” “Deadpool 2” is in theaters, and “Ant-Man and the Wasp” opened on Friday. None of these are minor productions.We are living in Hollywood’s Comic Book Age. A global obsession, superhero movies are seen by hundreds of millions, arguably the most consumed stories in human history.Films reflect the tastes and values of the period in which they are made. We can trace the changing status of women, evolving ideas about masculinity, war, crime, journalism, the C.I.A. or anything else by Hollywood treatments over the decades. So when historians look back at this glut of superhero flicks, what will they say about us? What are they about?There is no rule, of course, that says films have to be about anything. One way of looking at comic book movies is to see them simply as mental popcorn, meant to be rapidly consumed and forgotten — this may be precisely why so many people love them. They are harmless. Armies of Hollywood professionals get paid, megamillions enjoy them and nobody gets hurt. Even snooty critics have fun inventing clever ways to slam them.Most fail to make sense even within the fantastical logic of their own worlds — why, for instance, do superheroes and villains persist in hurling large objects at each other long after it is clear this has no effect? They showcase beautiful bodies in well-choreographed combat augmented by ear-blasting pseudo-Wagnerian music and dazzling special effects. Plot lines are an afterthought, and dialogue is often breezily incoherent (particularly when trying to impart deeper meaning). They are formulaic, completely driven by commercial calculation, largely written by committees under strict studio supervision (which is not to say that committees are incapable of writing great scripts — see the amazing Pixar oeuvre). They are full of sound and fury — imaginatively costumed, star-studded, often well acted, stunningly crafted — signifying nothing, at least on purpose.(One exception is “Logan,” the most gritty and realistic of 2017’s top offerings, and the best. The script works as an allegory for America’s ongoing struggle against racism, and on the pull of paternity and tribe in the face of oppression. It is a movie deliberately about something, and would be good even if the central characters did not have super powers.)Jodie Foster recently described current big-budget productions as the cinematic equivalent of fracking, mining box office gold while wrecking the Earth. “It’s ruining the viewing habits of the American population and then ultimately the rest of the world. I don’t want to make $200 million movies about superheroes.”Even if they are not meant to be taken seriously by anyone older than 12, all stories mean something, even bad ones.If heroes are idealized humans, then today’s reflect an exaggerated Cult of Self. They are unique, supremely talented beings who transcend laws, even those of nature. Hollywood has always cherished mavericks, but these are, literally, cartoons — computer-generated.They celebrate exceptionalism and vigilantism. The old American ideal of succeeding through cleverness, virtue and grit is absent, as is the notion of ordinary folk banding together to overcome a threat — think of “It’s a Wonderful Life” or the original “The Magnificent Seven” or any of a dozen World War II-era films. Gone is respect for the rule of law and the importance of tradition and community. Institutions and human knowledge are useless. Religion is irrelevant. Governments are corrupt and/or inept, when not downright evil. The empowered individual is all.The superhero is an alien or outcast who possesses unique powers acquired either at birth or through some accident or gift. You can imagine the avid consumers of such films electing a president who boasts “I alone” can solve the nation’s problems, and who delights in tagging his domestic and foreign opponents with villainous, comic book monikers — “Crooked Hillary,” “Rocket Man.”Normal humans are mere bystanders, when they are not being crushed or vaporized. The average person is powerless and depends for survival on the good will of the gods. (It may be worth noting that in real life, the only way for a human to acquire anything like a superpower is to buy a gun, which may shed new light on America’s firearms fetish.)They labor to seem weighty. Take the opening monologue of “Wonder Woman,” a critically acclaimed film and one of the biggest box office hits in history. We see the blue planet Earth in space. Over orchestral violins comes the husky voice of Gal Gadot, playing Diana, the movie’s stunningly beautiful superhero, who notes the beauty of Earth, but also the “darkness simmering” beneath its surface, and then intones, portentously:“What one does, when faced with the truth, is more difficult than you think.”I get that we are not meant to reflect here — the action moves ahead swiftly — but for argument’s sake, let’s hit pause and consider. What one does faced with the truth … would, of course, depend entirely on the truth. I think what the screenwriters were after here is something more like: “The choices one confronts when faced with the truth are hard.” I’m just guessing. I think my version makes more sense, but lacks … Kapow!“Thor: Ragnarok,” “Guardians of the Galaxy” and “Avengers: Infinity War” (which, at roughly two and a half hours, does seem infinite) make the best argument for meaninglessness. They are little more than cosmic mixed martial arts bouts with a handful of clever lines.Some aspire to more. They depict a Manichaean world populated by gods, or superheroes and supervillains, in endless conflict. Christian imagery is freely evoked, but the faith itself is dramatically contradicted — forget about turning the other cheek; the ideal here is to kick evil’s ass. There is little in them for the religious right; they are socially liberal, big on female empowerment, and so inclusive they embrace even a trash-talking alien raccoon. The extraordinary success of “Black Panther” rests in part on creating a counter-myth to centuries of racist depictions of Africa, where it sets a hidden kingdom wiser and more technologically advanced than the wildest visions of Afro-Centrism.They rival Mormonism for chutzpah, wading in fearlessly to revise the canon of ancient stories and beliefs. But they are nowhere near as much fun.The characters of myth illustrate very human appetites, weaknesses and strengths. They represent love and beauty (Aphrodite); fertility and bounty (Demeter); or wine and ecstatic madness (Dionysus). Superheroes just have one or more extraordinary physical traits. And comic book villains lack the dark distinctions in Milton, whose devils personified specific sins — Satan (pride), Mammon (greed), Belial (wickedness), Moloch (child sacrifice). In comic book movies, villains just want to conquer and kill. They are not looking to slake their lust, amass great riches, build monuments to themselves, create utopian societies or engage in sadistic torments. They just want to win.“Spider-Man: Homecoming” is a straightforward retelling of the Icarus story, perhaps the most famous of all Greek myths. Icarus, inflated with pride when outfitted with feather-and-wax wings by his inventor father, Daedalus, ignores his father’s warnings and flies too high. The sun melts the wax and Icarus plunges to his death.This would be far too harsh a fate for a superhero, of course. Peter Parker enters into a quasi apprenticeship with Iron Man, who makes him a fancy costume that augments his powers while cautioning him to take it slow. Spider-Man overreaches, of course, and generates all sorts of mayhem, but ultimately triumphs after repeatedly hurling very large objects at his archenemy — who also turns out to be his girlfriend’s father, a twist that eluded Hellenistic scribes. In the end, he rejects Iron Man’s mentorship but gets to keep the costume — another immutable rule is that, no matter what, the cool outfit stays.“Wonder Woman” is more original, and thematically ambitious. Some of that superhero’s utopian, feminist (and even kinky) roots found their way into the script — “Men are essential for procreation,” Diana says, “but when it comes to pleasure, unnecessary.”It borrows heavily from “Paradise Lost,” but instead of Lucifer rebelling against God, here it’s Ares, the god of war, rebelling against his father, Zeus, and then plotting to destroy his creation. Ares insists men are essentially evil; Diana swears they are good (and cute, despite their flaws, blowing off the zealous feminism of her tribe). She defeats Ares, not by sacrificing herself, but by hurling large objects and then frying him with thunderbolts. She then sticks around to combat the evil in men — promising future installments of the franchise.When I was 12, living in Port Washington, N.Y., my friend Buzzy and I mixed a potion with his chemistry set and sprinkled ourselves with it, hoping to attain superpowers. We then raced around his house, anticipating a magical effect.We were disappointed. We remained all too normal, and soon set our sights on more viable dreams. Even then, in the ’60s, I imagined how cool it would be if movies could capture the stories I devoured in comic books. The old “Superman” TV show was pathetic; poor George Reeves looked more padded than chiseled, and he flew like someone suspended from a crane. “Batman” was a joke, and “Wonder Woman,” the TV show, offered little more than a voluptuous woman in a skimpy costume.The biggest reason for Hollywood’s booming Comic Book Age, of course, is technology. Computer imagery can now bring even the most outlandish images of comic book fantasy to life. They are exactly what I dreamed about as a boy.I watch now with my discounted senior citizen ticket, ever hopeful of recapturing the thrill I once got from the static printed page. And despite the astonishing cinematic wizardry, I’m always disappointed.The stories I read as a boy were no better and generally worse than those now on screen, but my dreams have all changed. Even as the utterly fantastic is made real, the superheroes seem silly, the stories fake. Still, the kid in me keeps coming back. I haven’t seen “Ant-Man and the Wasp” yet. Maybe that will be the one.Mark Bowden is a journalist and author, most recently of “Hue 1968.” He sees all superhero movies.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement