AdvertisementSupported byBy Sean L. McCarthyOur guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘HIGH NOTES’ at Cloud City (Nov. 17, 8 p.m.). Tessa Skara hosts this monthly musical comedy show that invites stand-up comedians, cabaret acts and musicians alike. Skara’s own group, Pop Roulette, has earned “Comic to Watch” honors from Comedy Central. Her guests this month at this performance space in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, include Cat Cohen and Sydnee Washington.cloudcity.nyc‘RSVP’ at Arlo NoMad (Nov. 16-17, 7:30 and 10 p.m.). This new variety show offers a collection of music, cabaret and comedy inside this Midtown hotel. Jeff Hiller (“Nightcap,” “Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson”) hosts on Friday; Ophira Eisenberg (NPR’s “Ask Me Another”), on Saturday. Expect music by Goldenchild, drag cabaret by Vodka Stinger, L.G.B.T.Q. comedy from Jon Wan, magic from the Great Dubini, dancing from Kit Kat and sideshow surprises from the Lady Aye. The price of admission includes a drink.212-806-7000, rsvptheshow.comILIZA SHLESINGER at Carolines on Broadway (through Nov. 18, 7:30 and 10 p.m.). With four Netflix specials under her belt, a book about “Girl Logic” and a newly inked development deal with CBS for her own sitcom, this former “Last Comic Standing” winner, who’s now famous enough to go first-name-only, headlines at Carolines this weekend. See this “Elder Millennial” before she’s a star across multiple generations.212-757-4100, carolines.comBETH STELLING at Gotham Comedy Club (Nov. 16, 8 and 10 p.m.; Nov. 17, 8, 10 and 11:45 p.m.). Stelling’s half-hour appearance on Netflix’s “The Standups” is funnier than most of the streaming platform’s other comedy specials. Her comic chops remain in high demand: She writes for Sarah Silverman’s Hulu series, “I Love You America,” previously wrote for HBO’s “Crashing,” and has appeared onscreen in Comedy Central’s “Corporate” and Amazon’s “Red Oaks.” But she’s poised for bigger and better things. Chloé Hilliard and Matthew Broussard open for her this weekend.212-367-9000, gothamcomedyclub.com‘YOU’RE THE EXPERT’ at Caveat (Nov. 18, 7 p.m.). You can attend the live taping of this podcast, in which three comedians attempt to figure out the particular expertise of the scientist onstage with them. But you can Google this month’s guest, Dr. Wendy Suzuki, ahead of time to get the jump on the panel, which will include Wyatt Cenac, Maeve Higgins and a surprise third comedian. Chris Duffy hosts.212-228-2100, caveat.nycAdvertisement