AdvertisementSupported byanatomy of a sceneTom Cruise, professional sky divers, even muscle cars: All have leapt from planes in recent films.By Mekado MurphyHollywood loves to throw people out of planes. Several big-budget movies over the last four years have sent their characters hurtling from aircraft for various narrative purposes. And yet the main reason may just be because it’s cool. Sometimes it’s a H.A.L.O. (high altitude-low opening) jump, as in the new “Mission: Impossible — Fallout” or in the 2014 reboot of “Godzilla.” Other times there’s a crazy complicating factor: a star leaps from a crashing plane with a big gorilla on board, as in the recent “Rampage,” or there’s a mummy’s curse along for the ride, as in “The Mummy. (2017). And on one occasion, in the rollicking “Furious 7,” it’s not just people, but muscle cars as well, that take a leap. Below are scenes from four films, with commentary from their directors on how they pulled off these stunts. Tom Cruise returns as Ethan Hunt, and the actor’s stunts keep getting wilder. That includes this ambitious one where he leaps from a plane at 25,000 feet while a sky diving camera operator follows his every move. If it looks like lunacy here, it’s even crazier in Imax.Here, the stars Dwayne Johnson and Naomie Harris deal with a couple of crises at once: a thrashing gorilla and a crashing plane. The director Brad Peyton explains how they combined live stunts with visual effects, and how they mounted cameras on sky divers.It’s just another day of driving cars out of airplanes for the ragtag crew in the “Fast & Furious” franchise. Here, that team includes Tyrese Gibson, Chris “Ludacris” Bridges, Paul Walker, Michelle Rodriguez and Vin Diesel. While the actors didn’t actually sky dive, the filmmakers did indeed drop cars out the plane to capture some of these shots.In this sequence from Gareth Edwards’s film, a monster fight has created a problem or two in San Francisco, and the military is sent in, descending by H.A.L.O. jump. Professional sky divers and visual effects helped bring the scene to life.Mekado Murphy is a senior staff editor with a focus on movies coverage. He joined The Times in 2006.  @mekadomurphy Advertisement