AdvertisementSupported byOn DVDBy J. HobermanLav Diaz, a writer-director who divides his time between his native Philippines and Queens, N.Y., is a prolific filmmaker as well as a master of what is sometimes called slow cinema. He’s made movies as long as 11 hours; his most recent, “The Woman Who Left,” is a 228-minute film inspired by a nine-page short story, Tolstoy’s “God Sees the Truth, but Waits.”The 2016 winner of the Golden Lion, the top prize at the Venice Film Festival, and now out on disc from Kino Lorber, “The Woman Who Left” is a tale of vengeance that is also a meditative social panorama, filmed in crisp black and white. The pace is deliberate but not ponderous, evoking “the rich pleasures of great 19th-century fiction,” as the New York Times critic A. O. Scott wrote when “The Woman Who Left” played briefly last spring.In that richness, as well as its theme, “The Woman Who Left” is of a piece with Mr. Diaz’s equally measured “Norte, the End of History,” adapted from Dostoyevsky’s “Crime and Punishment.” In “The Woman Who Left,” Horacia (the actress turned producer Charo Santos-Concio, appearing without vanity in her first movie since the early 1990s) is a former schoolteacher imprisoned for 30 years for a murder she did not commit. Unexpectedly, a fellow inmate confesses to the crime and Horacia, jailed during the initial period of the Marcos regime, is released into the financial instability of 1997, a time rife with kidnappings for ransom.Tolstoy’s falsely accused protagonist forgives the man who framed him and dies before he can be set free; Horacia, less saintly than she initially appears, returns to her home city on the island of Mindoro, seeking revenge on the former lover who orchestrated her imprisonment and is now a powerful underworld figure surrounded by bodyguards. While radio bulletins regularly report on abducted millionaires, the poor disappear in other ways and no one cares. Injustice is made apparent as the authorities are shown demolishing shantytowns, seemingly at random.Assuming several different identities, at times something of a compassionate superheroine, Horacia bides her time among the lower depths, befriending squatters and street people. Notable among these garrulous characters is Hollanda, a transgender prostitute (the romantic idol John Lloyd Cruz, like Ms. Santos-Concio, a known star cast against type). Horacia nurses Hollanda, subject to epileptic seizures and beaten nearly to death, back to health. In one unexpected bit of business, their drunken duet of “Sunrise, Sunset” segues into her rendition of another Broadway show tune, “Somewhere.” Like her character, Ms. Santos-Concio is full of surprises. So too Mr. Diaz, who is said to be completing a musical set in 1976, the year martial law was extended in the Philippines.At once stately and unassuming, austere and raunchy, “The Woman Who Left” is largely composed of impressively long takes that are most often static medium shots. (Mr. Diaz served as his own director of photography.) The precisely placed camera rarely moves — and when it does, as with tracking shots exploring the parties and tawdry forms of entertainment on the local beach, the sense of release is in some ways comparable to Horacia’s own.The protagonist of another gorgeously filmed, island-set quest, Pedro Costa’s 1994 “Casa de Lava,” (also known as “Down to Earth”) is a Portuguese nurse, Mariana (Inês Medeiros), who escorts a comatose worker, Leão (the Ivorian actor Isaach de Bankole), injured on a Lisbon construction site, to his home village in Cape Verde.Mr. Costa, who wrote and directed the film, has said that he made it under the spell of the luridly titled Val Lewton B-movie “I Walked With a Zombie” (1943), itself inspired by the novel “Jane Eyre.” As in the Lewton film, a professional tending to a mysteriously bewitched patient is transported to a tropical island where, fascinated by the indigenous culture and colonial legacy, she strives to resolve her own sexual identity.The climate of “Casa de Lava” is ripe and melancholy. The hospital where Mariana brings Leão was once a leper colony; the island was a penal settlement for the exiled enemies of Portugal’s dictatorship. Even as some Europeans stay on, one of whom (Edith Scob) is the widow of a former prisoner, the local residents are compelled to leave, looking for work in Portugal. “Not even the dead can rest here,” somebody says.“Casa de Lava” (which was never commercially released in the United States and has been issued on disc by the adventurous and estimable new label, Grasshopper Film) is laconic and oblique. The action is hauntingly cryptic. Mariana’s motives and actions resist easy interpretation, although Ms. Medeiros, an actress with many expressions who, for most of the movie, wears the same outfit (a short, flimsy red tunic), is never less than convincing. Her vivid presence is matched by that of Cape Verde’s volcanic landscape. Few movies have a stronger sense of place — or placelessness. The narrative is ravishingly tangled. As the critic Jonathan Rosenbaum writes in notes that accompany the disc, “Each beautiful composition — that is to say, each shot — tells a separate story.”Mr. Costa’s career changed direction after “Casa de Lava.” As reported in The Times by Dennis Lim, the Cape Verdeans that Mr. Costa met while making his movie sent him back to Lisbon with gifts to be given to their relatives. The gift for Mr. Costa was an idea for new subject matter. The subsequent, quasi-documentary films — “Ossos,” “In Vanda’s Room” and “Colossal Youth” — which established his international reputation were all set in the now vanished Lisbon slum of Fontainhas and gave voice to the mainly Cape Verdean immigrants who lived there.HENRI-GEORGES CLOUZOT’S INFERNO Henri-Georges Clouzot’s unfinished, hallucinatory thriller got a posthumous life in this documentary reconstruction by Serge Bromberg and Ruxandra Medrea, new on Blu-ray. In his 2010 review, The Times’s A. O. Scott called the remnants of Clouzot’s film “tantalizing and frequently beautiful, if sometimes bizarre.” (Arrow Academy)HERMIA & HELENA Shakespeare’s plays have regularly figured in the films of the Argentine writer-director Matías Piñeiro, in this case a new Spanish translation of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Reviewing for The Times in May 2017, Glenn Kenny called “Hermia & Helena” “a peculiar film, one both steely and delicate.” Available on Blu-ray, DVD, and Amazon Video. (Kino Lorber)THE JAZZ LOFT ACCORDING TO W. EUGENE SMITH Now on DVD, Sara Fishko’s documentary sheds light on a little-known 1950s art scene — the use of the photographer W. Eugene Smith’s midtown studio as a place for musicians to jam. “The bohemian paradise of this environment had a dark side, and the movie doesn’t give it short shrift,” Mr. Kenny wrote in a September 2016 review. “Nevertheless, a genuine exhilaration holds throughout.” (Kino Lorber)THE LURE Two man-eating mermaids come ashore in Agnieszka Smoczynska’s comic horror-musical vision of late Communist Poland. “An aura of nonspecific nostalgia hangs in the air,” Mr. Scott wrote in his January 2017 review. “We are not exactly in the present and not precisely in the past, but in a dreamy cinematic space where distinctions of genre and tone are pleasantly (and sometimes shockingly) blurred.” On Blu-ray, DVD and Amazon Video. (Criterion)MOSES AND AARON Arnold Schoenberg’s unfinished opera — among the 20th century’s most ambitious modernist compositions — provided the basis for a suitably rigorous modernist film, released by Jean-Marie Straub and Danièle Huillet in 1975. Extras on this new digital restoration include three early Straub-Huillet works, “Machorka-Muff,” “Not Reconciled” and “Introduction to Arnold Schoenberg’s ‘Accompaniment to a Cinematographic Scene.’” (Grasshopper)Advertisement