AdvertisementSupported byTech We’re UsingBy A.O. ScottHow do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? A. O. Scott, a chief film critic of The Times, discussed the tech he’s using.How have tech and online publishing changed the way you review movies?When The Times started reviewing movies regularly — back in the 1930s, long before I was hired — the film critics emulated the theater critics. They went to see the movie on opening night, then raced back to the newsroom to file copy for the next day’s paper. (The review would always name the local theaters where the movie was playing.)By the time I got here, almost 20 years ago, some things had changed. Critics would see the film at a press screening a few days before release, and the review would appear in the paper on the first day — usually Friday — that readers could go see it.These days, the review is published online first, sometimes a week (or more) before the theatrical opening. It’s not enough for subscribers or newsstand buyers to get the reviews along with the rest of the news in the Friday issue of The Times. Being first didn’t use to matter, but now that we are competing for traffic with everyone else, it often does. Perhaps because reviews land so much earlier in the cycle of public attention, there seems to be a lot more spoiler sensitivity. People are eager to find out about movies, but they don’t want to learn too much too soon.What hasn’t changed?I still go to screenings! We never review from links, and only rarely, when there’s no other option, from DVDs. It still matters to my colleagues and me that we experience a film in aesthetically optimal conditions — projected on a big screen in a dark room with no distractions — even if many of our readers will end up watching at home.Some movies don’t even release in theaters — they release on streaming services like Netflix.What does your setup look like at home to review those kinds of movies?I have a big LED television with a Blu-ray player. I recently gave up cable, but I subscribe to most of the streaming services and some cable channels so I can keep up with things. But I have to admit that I’m also fond of watching certain movies on my laptop with a headset — I like the coziness and intimacy, which even may enhance the experience of some quiet, smaller-scaled movies.Tech has profoundly changed the way movies are made. What are your favorite uses of tech in movie production, and what are your least favorite?I often think computer-generated special effects are used as a crutch rather than a creative tool — so many digitally enhanced action sequences strike me as unimaginative and phoned in.On the other hand, the field of animation has opened up in some pretty amazing ways. Some of my favorite movies in my tenure at The Times have been Pixar features.But I also like the ways that digital technology has democratized film production. One of my favorite movies from a few years back was Sean Baker’s "Tangerine,” a feature shot on an iPhone that had a distinctive visual texture.Hasn’t social media made it impossible to keep a lid on movie spoilers ahead of a film’s theatrical release?Social media also amplifies the hysteria about spoilers, which I find kind of depressing. There is so much more to movies than plot, or at least there should be, but the studios have so little faith in their products that they mystify banal and obvious story elements. Rosebud is the name of a sled. “Citizen Kane” is still a great movie.When you’re not reviewing movies, are there any tech products you are currently obsessed with?A few years ago, when I was struggling to finish writing a book, I decided I needed to tune out the distractions of Twitter and email and New York Times news alerts so that I could make my daily word count. I started leaving the house for a few hours with no laptop or phone — just a ballpoint pen and a 5-by-7-inch notebook, the same setup I’d been using for years to take notes in dark theaters.It works like a dream, and now I write all my reviews that way. It also works for poems, to-do lists, phone numbers and scraps of dialogue. The only problem is my penmanship, which almost got me held back in fourth grade and has only declined in the years since. Also it’s hard to insert hyperlinks in the text.Follow A.O. Scott on Twitter: @aoscott.Advertisement