AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.MIRANDA CUCKSON AND MICHAEL HERSCH at National Sawdust (Sept. 18, 8 p.m.). A leading composer, noted for works of bleak despair, as well as a notable pianist in his own right, plays with our leading contemporary-music violinist, able to take on the most difficult of works with seeming ease. Their concert should be among the more special ones you will hear at the start of the new season. Selections from Mr. Hersch’s music include “The Vanishing Pavilions,” “In the Snowy Margins,” “Fourteen Pieces” and “One Day May Become Menace.”646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.orgGABRIEL KAHANE at Murmrr Ballroom (Sept. 20, 8 p.m.). A singer-songwriter of unerring quality, Mr. Kahane boarded a train the day after the 2016 presidential election and, phoneless, rode nearly 9,000 miles around the nation. “Book of Travelers,” a new album on Nonesuch, is the result, and you can hear it at this concert, too. Opening for him is Johnny Gandelsman, playing Bach.lpr.comNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Sept. 14-15, 8 p.m., Sept. 20, 7 p.m.). “The Art of the Score” concludes this week with two performances featuring “2001: A Space Odyssey” and its soundtrack of Strauss, Ligeti and more. André de Ridder will be on the podium, but for previous screenings of Stanley Kubrick’s film in 2013, Alan Gilbert took the lead. His successor, Jaap van Zweden, conducts the opening gala concert — his first as the official music director — on Thursday, leading Stravinsky’s “The Rite of Spring,” Ravel’s Piano Concerto (with Daniil Trifonov) and the premiere of Ashley Fure’s “Filament.”212-875-5656, nyphil.orgTERRY RILEY at National Sawdust (Sept. 15, 7 p.m.). Julian Wachner, who is an artist in residence at National Sawdust this year, leads Trinity Wall Street’s Novus NY ensemble in a program devoted mostly to this Minimalist master, including “Madrigal” and “Archangels.” There’s also music for a cello octet by Gity Razaz.646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.orgTESLA QUARTET at Baryshnikov Arts Center (Sept. 19, 7:30 p.m.). This unusual program interrupts two decadent, late-Romantic quartets by Szymanowski and Debussy with Berio’s “Sequenza III” for solo voice. Alexandra Smither is the soprano.646-731-3200, bacnyc.orgAdvertisement