AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.PAT GREEN at Terminal 5 (March 2, 7 p.m.). Escape to the Lone Star state at this show, which features four acts whose sound belongs to the Texas-specific country subgenre known as red dirt. Green, who had a string of radio hits in the mid-2000s, is the elder statesman of this lineup. He’ll be joined by the Eli Young Band, who are currently on the country charts with their upbeat single “Love Ain’t,” as well as by Aaron Watson and Kyle Park — two artists who are stalwarts on the rodeo circuit. The common thread is a rough-around-the-edges, rock-tinged take on country music that never strays too far from the genre’s dancehall roots. 212-582-6600, terminal5nyc.comICE CUBE at Terminal 5 (March 6, 8 p.m.). Gen Z might only know this pioneering Los Angeles-based rapper as an approachable blockbuster star or, most recently, one of the moguls behind the BIG3 basketball league. But this N.W.A. alum still has a rich catalog of songs that were once considered subversive but are now classic. Both in N.W.A. and as a soloist, Ice Cube helped revolutionize rap with his cleareyed lyrics about police brutality, white supremacy and gang life. His unflinching political observations continue on his 2018 release “Everythangs Corrupt,” which includes a song called “Arrest the President.” 212-582-6600, terminal5nyc.comINNOV GNAWA at National Sawdust (March 2, 7:30 p.m.). This collective of Moroccan expatriates makes gnawa, or ritual trance music. It bears some of the same stylistic traits as American blues: call-and-response singing and a stringed instrument (in the case of gnawa, a sintir) that is used to establish harmony. The complicated, endlessly cycling rhythms, though, are distinct to the genre and create a soothing, meditative ambience. This performance is billed not as a concert, but as an “immersive gnawa ritual.” 646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]LOVE ROCKS NYC at the Beacon Theater (March 7, 8 p.m.). For the third year running, the designer John Varvatos and the real estate broker Greg Williamson have organized an all-star concert to benefit the New York charity God’s Love We Deliver, which provides food and support to people with life-threatening illnesses. This year’s edition will star Robert Plant, Sheryl Crow, Buddy Guy, Grace Potter, Keb’ Mo’, Taj Mahal, Lukas Nelson, Doyle Bramhall II, Bernie Williams, Ivan Neville, Ann and Nancy Wilson, and more, while Whoopi Goldberg and Martin Short host. Even the house band will be filled with music’s A-listers, including Paul Shaffer, the former musical director of “Late Show With David Letterman,” and the prolific drummer Steve Gadd. 212-465-6000, beacontheatre.comTHE NEW COLOSSUS FESTIVAL at various locations (March 7-10). For 35 years, the CMJ Music Marathon was New York City’s very own pleasantly overwhelming indie music festival, where up-and-coming artists took over performance spaces every October in the interest of getting heard by myriad journalists and record label reps trolling for talent. But it ended in 2016, and a new festival aims to fill the void it left behind while also catching international artists en route to South by Southwest in Austin, Tex. In its first year as a multiday event, at six different clubs across the Lower East Side, the event will feature over 100 acts, including the Canadian D.I.Y. act Ellis, the Brooklyn-based punk band Thick and the Norwegian alt-pop group Das Body. newcolossusfestival.comKODIE SHANE at S.O.B.’s (March 6, 8 p.m.). At a moment when there are more commercially successful women in rap than there have been at any point since the early 2000s — when, in fact, one of the genre’s biggest and buzziest artists, Cardi B, is a woman — it looks even more foolish than usual to define M.C.s like Chicago’s Kodie Shane by their gender. The 20-year-old rapper, who is based in Atlanta, first drew recognition as a member of Lil Yachty’s Sailing Team collective and favors similarly melodic, AutoTuned verses over trap beats. In place of Yachty’s whimsy, though, on songs like “Sing to Her,” Shane tends toward the undeniably sultry. 212-243-4940, sobs.comSUZANNE VEGA at Café Carlyle (March 5-9, 8:45 p.m.; through March 16). This New York-based singer-songwriter has been composing and performing folk-inspired acoustic tunes since she was a Barnard student in the early 1980s. The venerable cabaret Café Carlyle might be considerably more upscale than Tom’s Restaurant — the Upper West Side student haunt that inspired Vega’s enduring and influential single “Tom’s Diner” — but both offer a glimpse of a bygone New York. A product of the bohemian Greenwich Village folk scene, which has all but disappeared, Vega herself presents an evening of time travel to a completely different period in the city’s history. 800-405-2027, cafecarlylenewyork.com NATALIE WEINERAMBROSE AKINMUSIRE at the Village Vanguard (March 5-10, 8:30 and 10:30 p.m.). A young trumpeter at the top of his game, Akinmusire is coming off the release of last year’s “Origami Harvest,” his stellar fifth album, featuring long-form compositions for voice, string quartet and jazz combo. In the coming week he returns to the Vanguard — a familiar stomping ground — with his quintet, which features Walter Smith III on tenor saxophone, Sullivan Fortner on piano, Harish Raghavan on bass and Justin Brown on drums. Expect original music with a smoky, drifting aesthetic, and group interplay that overflows the formal boundaries of most small-group jazz.212-255-4037, villagevanguard.comKURT ELLING at the Rose Theater (March 1-2, 8 p.m.). An esteemed jazz crooner whose vocal power is matched by his cool sensitivity to each song, Elling presents the premiere of “The Big Blind,” a drama in the format of an old radio musical. Written by Elling and the composer Phil Galdston, it tells of a young jazz singer in midcentury Chicago who’s trying to catch his big break. The show’s cast includes the vocalist Dee Dee Bridgewater (a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master), the stage actor Ben Vereen, the drummer Ulysses Owens Jr.’s New Century Jazz Orchestra and a Foley artist providing live sound effects.212-721-6500, jazz.orgIMPROV NIGHTS at Happylucky No. 1 (March 1-2, 8 p.m.). John Zorn continues to expand the footprint of the Stone, his avant-garde presenting shop, which left behind its spartan digs in Alphabet City last year and moved to the New School’s Glass Box Theater. Now Zorn is planting a flag in central Brooklyn, too: This weekend his new series debuts at Happylucky No. 1, a gallery and event space in Crown Heights. The Stone will be programming concerts there each weekend going forward. (Bookings have already been made through the end of 2019.) Things are kicking off in classic Stone fashion: two nights of round-robin improvisations with some of New York’s leading creative musicians (the cellist Okkyung Lee, the guitarist Mary Halvorson, the percussionist Cyro Baptista and more than a dozen others) performing in randomly thrown-together configurations.www.happyluckyno1.comJULIAN LAGE TRIO at Le Poisson Rouge (March 5, 8:30 p.m.). Lage, a 31-year-old guitar virtuoso, just released a winning new album, “Love Hurts.” It might be the closest thing he’s released to a straight-ahead jazz record. But with the bassist Jorge Roeder and the drummer Dave King — two left-field improvisers a generation ahead of him — at his side, a freewheeling, rock-tinged vibe finds its way in through the seams. Ever the adaptive player, Lage leans into the influences of Pat Martino and John Scofield here, playing his distorted electric guitar in snaky, spiraling lines. The trio’s repertoire ranges from Ornette Coleman to Roy Orbison to some of Lage’s own tunes.212-505-3474, lpr.comADAM O’FARRILL’S BIRD BLOWN OUT OF LATITUDE AND AARON BURNETT AND THE BIG MACHINE at National Sawdust (March 5, 7 p.m.). A blazing young trumpet talent, O’Farrill will unveil a new nine-piece ensemble that plays original music with a political bent: The tunes he writes for Bird Blown Out of Latitude are inspired by the traumas caused by displacement and forced migration. The tenor saxophonist Burnett is, like O’Farrill, an arresting improviser with an idiosyncratic, confrontational approach to composition. Here he will present material from his recently released album, “Anomaly,” with his combo, the Big Machine.646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.orgLINDA MAY HAN OH QUINTET at the Miller Theater (March 2, 8 p.m.). As part of a continuing jazz series at the Miller, Oh, a young bassist, will lead a quintet, showcasing her sturdy, propulsive original compositions, likely drawing from her fine 2017 album, “Walk Against Wind.” Her band at the Miller features the alto saxophonist Greg Ward, the guitarist Matthew Stevens, the pianist Fabian Almazan and the drummer Allan Mednard.212-854-7799, millertheatre.comALFREDO RODRIGUEZ AND PEDRITO MARTINEZ at Jazz Standard (Feb. 28-March 3, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Rodriguez, a pianist, and Martinez, a percussionist and vocalist, are masters of Afro-Cuban rhythm who both hail from Havana, though they learned their craft in different settings: Rodriguez at clubs and solares — the housing units where much of Cuba’s African musical inheritance is passed down — and Martinez at various conservatories in the city. On “Duologue,” their new, Quincy Jones-produced album, the pair find plenty of generative energy in the space between their styles. They appear at the Standard in an unadorned duo.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.com GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOAdvertisement