AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.ANI CORDERO at the David Rubenstein Atrium at Lincoln Center (Jan. 31, 7:30 p.m.). The New York-based singer and instrumentalist uses music to tap into her Puerto Rican heritage, performing traditional music from the island, as well as from around Latin America (she’s worked with the Brazilian ensemble Os Mutantes, among others). Specifically, on her debut solo release in 2014, “Recordar,” Cordero paid tribute to Latin American music’s history of protest songs, offering her rendition of compositions by artists like Mexico’s Chavela Vargas and Chile’s Violeta Parra. This concert is free, and the Puerto Rican pop singer JOATA will open. 212-721-6500, lincolncenter.orgRYAN HURD at Bowery Ballroom (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). Like many artists working to break through in Nashville, Hurd has an impressive roster of songs that he’s co-written for country stars: Darius Rucker, Dierks Bentley, Florida Georgia Line and Tim McGraw. While writing “Last Turn Home” for McGraw, Hurd met his wife, Maren Morris; now he’s guest-starring in her music videos. The songs he writes for himself are charmingly romantic, painting pictures of understated, easy affection. On “Love in a Bar” (which, naturally, is about Morris) he sings about falling hard for someone while sharing a few beers; his latest single, “To a T,” is an ode to a cozy night in. Both show his flair for believable love songs that aren’t cloyingly sweet. 212-260-4700, boweryballroom.comLES SAVY FAV at Junction (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.) and Elsewhere (Jan. 26, 7 p.m.). On Friday and Saturday, this art-punk quintet will perform their first local shows in more than two years. The band members have been experimenting with noise, pop and punk music for over two decades, but at this point — nearly nine years after their last new album, and with two members locked into a regular gig on “Late Night With Seth Meyers” — Les Savy Fav’s raucous, unpredictable live shows remain their calling card. Their gig at Junction in Long Beach, N.Y., is a benefit for Tommy Brull Foundation, an organization dedicated to helping people with special needs on Long Island; the band’s set at Elsewhere is sold out, but tickets are available through resellers. 516-889-1680, junction11561.comelsewherebrooklyn.comKACEY MUSGRAVES at the Beacon Theater (Jan. 25-26, 8 p.m.). A young country singer selling out two nights at one of New York City’s biggest theaters is newsworthy in and of itself; the fact that said country singer, Musgraves, is a woman working at a moment when country radio seems to be hostile to female artists only adds to the significance of this success. Long a critical darling, Musgraves took a pop-oriented swing with her mellow, sweet 2018 release, “Golden Hour,” and with its Grammy nomination for album of the year, she appears to have hit a home run. Tickets for both shows are available on the resale market. 212-465-6000, beacontheatre.comWU-TANG CLAN at Terminal 5 (Jan. 26-27, 8 p.m.). As part of the extended 25th anniversary celebration for their seminal 1993 debut, “Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers),” this Staten Island-bred rap group is performing two rare New York shows. Many of Wu-Tang’s nine founding members, including GZA, RZA, Method Man, Ghostface Killah and Raekwon, have found substantial success outside the group; “36 Chambers,” though, still holds importance. RZA recently told Complex of the release that “each of our lyrics are potent and become more substantiated as time goes on.” Both shows are sold out, but tickets are available through resellers. 212-582-6600, terminal5nyc.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]YOUNG DOLPH at Gramercy Theater (Jan. 31, 7 p.m.). Succeeding in rap without first rising through the ranks in one of its hubs — New York, Chicago, Atlanta or Los Angeles — is challenging. Yet Young Dolph’s commitment to representing his hometown, Memphis, remains steadfast. He’s also stayed independent, another unlikely choice for an M.C. who trades in catchy trap beats and streetwise lyrics just slightly more hard edged than the current trends on commercial rap radio. Fresh off his biggest solo success to date with the single “Major,” though, Dolph is starting to reap some rewards. The show is sold out, but tickets are available on the resale market.212-614-6932, thegramercytheatre.comNATALIE WEINERBRAXTON COOK at Baby’s All Right (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). A gifted young alto saxophonist and vocalist, Cook is both a graduate of Juilliard’s notoriously traditionalist jazz program and a veteran of Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah’s genre-bending ensembles. In his increasingly acclaimed solo projects, Cook builds a contemporary, jazz-pop identity that draws from 1970s fusion, ’80s R&B and contemporary Los Angeles hip-hop. Through it all, he finds a way to let his bebop-rooted saxophone improvisations shine. At this concert, featuring a guest appearance from the trumpeter Theo Croker, he will draw material from “No Doubt,” an album he released late last year.babysallright.comANTONIO HART QUINTET at Smoke (Jan. 25-26, 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m.). Hart, a stellar alto saxophonist who burst onto the New York scene alongside Roy Hargrove in the early 1990s as part of the Young Lions generation, has always worn his debt to Cannonball Adderley on his cuffs. Here he presents a tribute to Adderley, an iconic hard-bop saxophonist, in a quintet that features Freddie Hendrix on trumpet, Caili O’Doherty on piano, Alex Ayala on bass and Cory Cox on drums.212-864-6662, smokejazz.comVIJAY IYER at Jazz Standard (through Jan. 27, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Iyer’s sextet has been one of the hottest commodities in jazz since the release of its debut, “Far From Over,” in 2017. A version of that band will play on Friday and Saturday, presenting Iyer’s beaming, rhythmically interleaved original music. Then on Sunday, Iyer will perform with a newer group that features some of his colleagues and students at Harvard University, where he teaches. (He’s also a MacArthur fellow.) That band is called the Ritual Ensemble, and it features Ganavya Doraiswamy on vocals, Yosvany Terry on saxophones and Rajna Swaminathan on mridangam, an Indian percussion instrument.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.comAVA MENDOZA ET AL. at H0L0 (Jan. 31, 7 p.m.). A conclave of young avant-garde improvisers will descend on this darkened basement in Ridgewood, Queens, for a night of free playing. It’s hard to know where things will go; if you go, steel yourself for a wide variety of musical textures and temperaments, most of them liberated from standard time and harmony. The performers include the thrashing, post-metal guitarist Ava Mendoza; the pensive tenor saxophonist Ingrid Laubrock; and the bassist Brandon Lopez, who uses his instrument in a variety of nontraditional ways.h0l0.nyc‘THE MUSIC OF ANTHONY BRAXTON’ at Roulette (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). One of the premier — and most prolific — living American composers, Braxton continues to release reams of new music, typically drawing on improvisation and built around his own complex musical systems. On Friday his 12-disc collection titled “GTM (Syntax) 2017,” featuring his Tri-Centric Vocal Ensemble, comes out. Here an 11-person version of that group performs in celebration of the record’s release. Afterward, the electronic musician Carl Testa and the pianist Cory Smythe will play music from a different part of Braxton’s repertoire, using a compositional system of his called Echo Echo Mirror House Music. 917-267-0368, roulette.orgWADADA LEO SMITH at the Appel Room (Jan. 26, 7 and 9:30 p.m.). Every recording Smith releases feels apt to be called a “landmark.” It’s the awe-inspiring, wide-screen breadth of his trumpet sound, the slowly accruing power of his compositions, and his way of making even small ensembles sound spacious — and ancient. “America’s National Parks,” his widely acclaimed 2016 release celebrating the natural wonders of North America, stands out in particular for its tumultuous melodic beauty and the bristling, mutating forms of its compositions. At Jazz at Lincoln Center, Smith presents the New York City debut of this work, joined by the personnel from the album: the pianist Anthony Davis, the cellist Ashley Walters, the bassist John Lindberg and the drummer Pheeroan akLaff.212-721-6500, jazz.orgGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOAdvertisement