AdvertisementSupported byUp NextThe psychedelic rapper behind the “Me and My Higher Self” memes opened for Fever Ray and hosts a show on Vice’s Broadly channel. By Molly OswaksName: Bunny MichaelAge: 35Hometown: DallasNow Lives: In a two-bedroom apartment in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, with a fiancée, Khara Gilvey, and a black cat named Pepper.Claim to Fame: Bunny Michael (whose legal name is Melisa Rincón) is a gender-nonbinary artist and rapper who is perhaps best known for posting “Me and My Higher Self” memes on Instagram. In those memes, Mx. Michael appears to be having a pep talk with a spiritually enlightened doppelgänger. One reads: “Me: I’m ashamed of this country. Higher Self: I’m changing this country.” Another reads: “Me: I’m worried. Higher Self: I’m a warrior.” The memes also take the form of scripted one-minute webisodes.Big Break: In 2016, after starting to post doppelgänger photos on Instagram, Mx. Michael took an online healing workshop with Chani Nicholas, an astrologer. The workshop inspired Mx. Michael to turn the Instagram project into a meme. “I think people were looking for inspiration on social media that didn’t seem like trite or cliché spirituality,” Mx. Michael said. “Things aren’t always positive. Life is hard, but you’re not alone. When I saw that some of my biggest inspirations were following me — SZA, Kehlani, Ilana Glazer — people who were supposedly doing so well, still needed help, support, and still struggled, it confirmed that we’re all on this journey together.”Latest Project: In May, Mx. Michael began hosting “Broadly Hotline,” a web series on Broadly, Vice’s feminist channel, that offers unorthodox advice and celebrity interviews. The third episode, “How to Deal With Your Ex,” features Rachel Bloom, a creator and star of the TV musical comedy “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend.” Karamo Brown, the resident culture expert on Netflix’s “Queer Eye” reboot, appears on a recent episode about sexual health.Next Thing: A podcast is in the works that will offer advice on personal growth, self-care and other millennial-focused topics, “kind of like Dan Savage, but with Higher Self questions,” Mx. Michael said. It will be an extension of a channel on Patreon, a web platform where artists post their work and offer services for “patrons” who have paid a fee. Art Therapy: Mx. Michael, who has performed as a rapper for more than 10 years, recently opened for Fever Ray, a Swedish electronic pop singer-songwriter. “I’ve always rapped about different states of consciousness — I’m a surrealist lyricist,” Mx. Michael said. “I feel very honored that my work is having an effect on people. I’ve noticed that having other people relate was very healing to me.”Advertisement