AdvertisementSupported byBy the BookThe actress and author of the essay collection “My Squirrel Days” never finished “The Woman in White,” by Wilkie Collins: “Why did the woman wear so much white? I couldn’t sit with it long enough to find any answers.”What books are on your nightstand?I have a tiny nightstand and invariably knock over a book every time I reach for my alarm clock. That’s not a brag about how many books I have on my nightstand but instead a reflection of my inability to deal with practical issues like looking for a larger nightstand. Right now I have “Crazy Salad” and “Scribble Scribble,” by Nora Ephron; “No Ordinary Time,” by Doris Kearns Goodwin; “White Teeth,” by Zadie Smith; “The Stories of John Cheever”; “Friend of My Youth,” by Alice Munro; “You Think It, I’ll Say It,” by Curtis Sittenfeld; and “Knuffle Bunny,” by Mo Willems. One of those is a book I read with my 2-year-old, but I’m not saying which one.What’s the last great book you read?“The Easter Parade,” by Richard Yates. This was a reread. I love Richard Yates because his prose is brilliantly unpretentious. It’s literary but doesn’t feel fancy. And I cannot get enough of those depressing Grimes sisters.Describe your ideal reading experience (when, where, what, how).First thing in the morning. In this ideal experience, I have gotten up at 4:30 a.m. This is not a burden for me; I love waking up early and I go to bed before 8 p.m. as often as possible. I make an entire pot of coffee, all for myself. I read at the kitchen table, alone, from 4:30 a.m. to 5:30 a.m. My brain feels better and stronger after this. I can then move on to answer emails, get my toddler dressed and fed, get the rest of the day started. Later, I’m able to read an additional 10 pages in my pajamas with my teeth both brushed and also flossed before falling asleep at 7:45 p.m.But most of that is a fantasy that is rarely realized — usually, I’m reading on the subway or a quick two pages before passing out while eating animal crackers in bed.What’s your go-to classic? And your favorite book no one else has heard of?My go-to classic is “Pride and Prejudice,” by Jane Austen. Is there a funnier portrait of anyone in literature than that of Lady Catherine de Bourgh? My favorite book very few other people have heard of is probably “Fashion Is Spinach,” by Elizabeth Hawes. This is a memoir of a fashion designer in the 1930s and Hawes’s critique of the fashion industry is blunt, sharp and wittily observed.Which writers — novelists, playwrights, critics, journalists, poets — working today do you admire most?Curtis Sittenfeld, Dave Eggers, Paul Beatty, Jill Lepore, Michael Kupperman, Anthony Lane and Sarah Ruhl. Kupperman’s graphic memoir about his Quiz Kid father, “All the Answers,” is surprisingly moving. Anthony Lane’s movie reviews are my favorite thing to read every week. Sarah Ruhl’s essays on motherhood are a comfort to me.You once body-tackled the historian Doris Kearns Goodwin. This is not a question but a chance for you to explain yourself.I’m surprised this one requires any explanation. Just kidding. It’s a disturbing story. Here is what happened. The same year that “Lincoln,” the Daniel Day-Lewis vehicle based on DKG’s award-winning biography, “Team of Rivals,” was released, I found myself at a pre-Oscar party celebrating the nominees. I wasn’t a nominee, so I’m not sure why I was there. I can attempt to explain that one in a separate column. Doris Kearns Goodwin, who was a nominee, was also there. When I saw this woman standing in the valet line, my jaw dropped. I am an enormous fan of DKG because of her good-humored appearances on PBS and NBC, but mostly because she is a genius historian who helps put historical events into context for her readers. Her works assure me that our nation has been through rough patches before, and this gives me reason to believe that we can get through anything. Back at the party, I made a beeline for DKG and introduced myself as her No. 1 fan. She smiled warmly and thanked me. Without waiting for her to give any indication that she wanted a hug, I leaned in to give her a hug. But she had begun to turn by that point, and I lost my balance. I fell on top of her, accidentally tackling her with the weight of my hot, sweaty body. I mumbled any number of mortified “I’m sorrys” and then — as one does — ran away to the port-a-potties. (I swear the party was high-end, but it was also outside.)What’s the last book that made you laugh?Adam Resnick’s “Will Not Attend.” Between “An Easter Story” and “Booker’s a Nice Guy,” I cannot contain myself. I usually do not laugh out loud when reading. But this book has me shaking on the subway and convulsing in the doctor’s waiting room. From laughing, I mean.The last book that made you cry?Joan Didion’s “Blue Nights.” A memoir about losing her daughter. Stunning and absolutely heartbreaking.What moves you most in a work of literature?Insightful, keen, even trenchant observations of the minutiae of everyday life. I love it when somebody else has recognized a tiny detail that has also struck me in some way.Of all the characters you’ve played, which role felt to you the richest — the most novelistic?Kimmy Schmidt. Hers is a tale of survival and of determination, the triumph of a fighting spirit. Kimmy was kidnapped as a child and held captive for 15 years. She is eventually rescued by the F.B.I. and starts a new life in New York City. She finds love, and also pizza on a fence. Or, her roommate, Titus, found the pizza, but they both ate it. She’s a heroine whose girlish appearance and penchant for gummy sharks can’t quite mask her steely resolve.What character from literature would you most like to play?Ooh. Can I give three? I’m giving three. Daisy Buchanan from “The Great Gatsby,” Jo March from “Little Women” and Pippi Longstocking. As an adult.What are your favorite movies or shows based on books?“Clueless” (based on “Emma”) and “Mildred Pierce,” both the Joan Crawford and the Kate Winslet versions.And what book would you most like to see turned into a movie or TV show?“Norwood,” by Charles Portis. They already made this one into a movie, in 1970, but I would like to see it remade starring Zach Galifianakis.What kinds of stories are you drawn to? Any you steer clear of?I love stories about suburban life and the seemingly trivial events that fill the days there. Curtis Sittenfeld, John Cheever and Alice Munro are the masters. I tend to avoid stories that my husband thinks I’ll enjoy. Massive volumes that he leaves out in the vain hope that I will one day read them. Stories about the Balkans before World War II, or the final days of W. C. Fields.What books might we be surprised to find on your shelves?“The Denial of Death,” by Ernest Becker; “Is There No Place on Earth for Me?,” by Susan Sheehan; and “The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis,” by José Saramago. These are all my husband’s books. See above.What kind of reader were you as a child? Which childhood books and authors stick with you most? (A reliable source tells us you know a lot about the Baby-Sitters Club.)I loved reading. I looked forward to library visits and the Scholastic book order form with an enthusiasm usually reserved for the Lucia’s frozen pizzas we could have when my parents went out. I devoured “Cheaper by the Dozen,” “Anne of Green Gables,” “Little House on the Prairie,” “Little Women.” Later, in high school, I loved “My Ántonia,” by Willa Cather, and “Beloved,” by Toni Morrison. But your source is indeed reliable. For me, nothing came close to “The Baby-Sitters Club.” From Stacey McGill hiding her diabetes (I pronounced it die-AH-buh-teez) to Claudia Kishi hiding her candy, I idolized these babysitters. I wanted to be in their club. But, in truth, I didn’t love babysitting that much and that was ultimately what ruined me.If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?Any book by Doris Kearns Goodwin. But not in the hope that he might accidentally tackle her one day.Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel as if you were supposed to like, and didn’t? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?“The Woman in White,” by Wilkie Collins. I was assigned this book in college and — I feel I am now long enough gone and therefore no diploma can now be revoked — I did not finish it. I don’t know what my problem was. This is considered to be one of the finest and earliest works of mystery fiction in history. But not to me. Then, nearly a decade after college, I read that it was one of Nora Ephron’s favorite books. Inspired, I decided to give it another go. Tried. Couldn’t. Why did the woman wear so much white? I couldn’t sit with it long enough to find any answers. I feel embarrassed, and disappointed. I admit I might be a cretin. But I have never finished “The Woman in White.”What book has had the greatest impact on you?I have to name two. The first is “The Remains of the Day,” by Kazuo Ishiguro. Not because of an actual self-altering impact, but because of its high-beam illumination of what prose can be. The clarity that Ishiguro achieves is absolutely crystalline. It is quiet and calm and spellbinding. The second is “Crazy Like a Fox,” by S. J. Perelman. He is the perfect exemplar for someone attempting to write humor essays.Whom would you want to write your life story?John Lahr. I haven’t yet read his biography of Tennessee Williams, but I so enjoyed his profiles of showbiz legends in “Show and Tell.” What I’m trying to say is, if he agreed to write about me, it would mean I was officially a showbiz legend.You’re organizing a literary dinner party. Which three writers, dead or alive, do you invite?Jane Austen, Edith Wharton and Charlotte Brontë. All the ladies in the house! Well, think of how lovely that dinner party would be! Unless Charlotte Brontë made it spooky.What’s next on your reading list?“Richard Nixon: The Life,” by John A. Farrell. I’m fascinated by what makes people crave power.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement