AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnTaylor Hackford’s Ray Charles biopic airs on BET. And the anime “Aggretsuko” releases a Christmas special on Netflix.RAY (2004) 9 p.m. on BET. One of the many emotional high points of Taylor Hackford’s Ray Charles biopic comes not when Charles walks onto a stage but when he walks away from one. It’s the early ’60s in Georgia, and Charles (Jamie Foxx, who won an Oscar for the role) marches his band back on the tour bus after learning that a venue is segregated. The film shows the struggles of a musician who became one of America’s most celebrated singers despite living in the era of segregation and fighting drug addiction. It chronicles the beginnings of his career in the 1940s through the mid-’60s, by which time he had become a star through now-ubiquitous recordings like “I Got a Woman” and “Hit the Road, Jack.” Kerry Washington stars alongside Foxx as Charles’s wife, Bea. “‘Ray’ succeeds, to an unusual extent for a movie of this kind, in presenting a vivid, convincing portrait of an artist,” A. O. Scott wrote in his review for The New York Times.THE DEATH OF STALIN (2017) 5 p.m. on Showtime. Based on graphic novels by Fabien Nury and Thierry Robin, Armando Iannucci’s sharp satire takes place in the time surrounding the death of Joseph Stalin. It trains its eye on a group of bumbling government types (played by Steve Buscemi and Simon Russell Beale, aong others) in a ham-handed struggle for power. In her review for The Times, Manohla Dargis called the film a “seamless effort,” writing that the story is “delivered in a brilliantly arranged mix of savage one-liners, lacerating dialogue and perfectly timed slapstick that wouldn’t be out of place in a Three Stooges bit.”AGGRETSUKO: WE WISH YOU A METAL CHRISTMAS on Netflix. “Aggretsuko” is an anime series about Retsuko, a red panda with a frustrating desk job who unwinds through death metal. In this Christmas special, Retsuko develops a social-media addiction — which should give her plenty more to vent about. The episode also features a punk-rock version of “Jingle Bells,” performed by Tim Armstrong of the band Rancid.A CHRISTMAS CAROL GOES WRONG on BroadwayHD. Those looking for a riff on Charles Dickens’s holiday classic have no shortage of options. This version, by Mischief Theater (the company behind “The Play That Goes Wrong”), stands out through self-referential absurdity; it follows an ill-fated attempt to produce a televised “Christmas Carol.”SCHINDLER’S LIST (1993) on Netflix. In a recent interview with The Times, the director Steven Spielberg was asked what he would change if he were to make “Schindler’s List” today. “There’s nothing I would have changed, absolutely nothing,” he said. “I stand by the film as it has stood its own test of time.” This Holocaust epic starring Liam Neeson is now a quarter-century old; you can stream it if you missed its recent 25th anniversary theatrical run.Advertisement