AdvertisementSupported byWelcome to Summer!By Margot Boyer-Dry and Tejal RaoHello!Before we launch into the plans for your next extraordinary New York adventure, we need your help.Where do you watch the fireworks in the city? We want to know for a special Fourth of July newsletter next week. Tell us here if you don’t mind sharing.And don’t forget about our Google Map and forwarding Summer to your friends.Thanks for reading as always, Margot and TejalWhat’s the Plan?If you happen to be one of those New Yorkers who appreciates good multitasking, let us introduce you to PS1’s outdoor Warm Up series.This multidisciplinary day party, thrown by MoMA’s even-more-experimental sister museum, starts Saturday and runs every weekend through September. It’s now in its 21st year of offering attendees one stop for top-notch:Music Curated by a team that includes D.J. Venus X and the PS1 employee-cum-musician Taja Cheek, Warm Up promises to bring an array of artists and genres each week to its gray concrete courtyard steps. On Saturday, you’ll hear among others Burna Boy, performing Nigerian Afrobeats; F — k U Pay Us, a vocally political girl-punk band from Los Angeles; and Cashmere Cat, an iconic D.J. from Oslo. As you might expect with this lineup, the crowd will be tight.Art Step inside, the whole museum is at your disposal. If you visit this week, expect most of the temporary exhibitions to be politically tinged, from videos and relics of Reza Abdoh’s queer theater works to Sue Coe’s “Graphic Resistance” collages and drawings. But James Turrell’s installation (continuing) is a pocket of tranquillity; enter the square room on the top floor and meditate on the muted blue of the open skylight and the geometric shadows it casts on the walls.Beautiful People The highest art in this space is arguably on the people. Look out for an astronomical level of sartorial expertise that’s likely to include monochrome, deftly matched prints and makeup applied with a seemingly impossible degree of precision.Your best spot for people-watching will be the temporary 20-foot hammock at the back of the courtyard, capable of holding your entire crew and then some. Installed underneath a series of large, interactive mirrors, the hammock also provides a place to reflect on the relationship between the courtyard and its surrounding streets, and perhaps the spaces in our city at large.Is this an art party, or has PS1 made partying an art? You be the judge.Events begin at noon. This and every week, Warm Up is free for L.I.C. residents, and for the first 100 high school students at the door. For the rest of us, tickets are here. Catch the full Warm Up season here. (Google Map)Before and After: RestaurantsMu Ramen just reopened with more tables and a new burger: It’s made from 10 ounces of rib-eye meat, dry aged and ground in-house, seared and sandwiched in the kitchen’s own buttery bread with melted taleggio and caramelized onions.If you’re looking for a brunch spot, head to Beebe’s inside the Boro Hotel, for wood-fired pizzas served all day in a bright, spacious dining room and out on the patio. The crusts are thin and crisp, light and airy, but bear the weight of their toppings — including ricotta and stracciatella made in the kitchen.Any visit to the neighborhood is a good excuse to eat dinner at Casa Enrique. Start with the sparkling, fresh ceviche, move onto beef-tongue tacos and roasted ribs, and finish, ideally, with a piece of tres leches drizzled with goat’s milk caramel. (Make a reservation.)(Google Map)Before and After: BarsGood news: The taproom at Big aLICe Brewing opens at noon on weekends. Flights start at four for $12, and you’ll find a range of delicious rye beers, I.P.A.s and cider on draft. Headed straight to a party? On your way out, you can buy some cans of that gently spicy, floral witbier, brewed with orange rind and local honey, to go.If wine’s more your speed, the chill and unfussy Domaine Bar a Vins offers a mostly but not entirely French list, along with plenty of cheese, charcuterie and oysters.And on a slow, sweltering afternoon, a Fix at Dutch Kills still does the trick: liquor, lemon juice and sugar on a great big pile of crushed ice. With a cherry on top.(Google Map)And Nearby• You might face a hefty line to buy coffee at PS1. Before you go, swing by Toby’s Estate with its high ceilings, naked-bulb chandeliers and towering windows with views of its backyard.• Coffee in hand, walk down Jackson Avenue to Underpenny, a museum-shop of American antiques situated under a tenement building. (Some items are for sale, others only for ogling.)• If you have time after the party, head to Gantry Plaza State Park, a waterfront space to debrief and feel your ears buzz. A contemporary mix of concrete and landscaping, it’s as if the Highline were immediately on the waterfront. Big love to those reclined seats.(Google Map)Required Reading• We made a SoundCloud playlist of the artists on the bill so you can investigate in advance. You’re welcome.• Listen to “Samantha Irby Gets High on Light” on Abbi Jacobson’s podcast, “A Piece of Work.” She brings the hilarious writer to PS1 to check out James Turrell’s “Meeting.”• Did you know that MoMA owns all 176 original emoji? Yeah. Learn more here.What’s the Plan?Accurately portraying the richness and variety of the lives lived in New York is a daunting, if not almost impossible, task.But the Quad Cinema has done a pretty admirable job with “The New York Woman,” a movie retrospective that kicks off Friday showing films with female protagonists living, loving and hurting in New York City.With works from 1924 to 1998, from screwball comedy to thriller, it’s like a lady-led walking tour through time and (our urban) space.From your plush, red seat in theater U (one of the Quad’s four screens — see what they did there?), you’ll ride the subway through Flatbush with the aspiring doctor Chantel in “Just Another Girl on the I.R.T.” (1992); duck and dive through Queens to evade the mob with “Gloria” (1980); and juggle the duties of motherhood through Lisette’s fraught relationships in “I Like It Like That” (Bronx, 1994). (Here’s the full lineup.)These narratives, pretty powerful as stand-alone films, resonate all the more when placed in conversation with one another. Alongside the rarefied dignity of being portrayed as real, complex humans, these leading ladies of New York also face routine dismissal on screen: of their professional ability, their sexual autonomy and, in some cases, of their sanity. These are familiar tropes to us all, especially considering the environment we’re in right now, and the timely poetry of these united voices comes through loud and clear.While it’s sweet enough to catch vintage flicks on the big screen, it’s even sweeter to do it in a place of cinematic history. Opened in 1972, the Quad is the city’s oldest multiscreen cinema.Now newly renovated, the theater looks downright futuristic with its shiny red lobby and square, neon-lit signage, hinting at the past only through vintage film posters and smaller-than-usual screening rooms.What’s old is new.Get the “series package,” five films for $60, available at the box office only. Otherwise, each film is $16 for adults, $13 for seniors and children. Tickets here. Information about director appearances here.(Google Map)Before and After: RestaurantsOne of the best spots in the neighborhood for a sweet in the afternoon is Mah Ze Dahr Bakery. Get a slice of lemon-meringue cake and a cup of tea, an airy brioche doughnut or a swirl of matcha and vanilla fior di latte soft serve, covered in candied ginger. (The cookies travel well, if you need a secret snack for the theater.)Emily makes glorious, crisp-bottomed pizzas with bubbly, charred edges — not just plain old reds and whites, but also several “pinks,” including a particularly comforting number made with vodka sauce and mozzarella. And don’t sleep on the wedge salad!You’ll find unfussy Italian-style plates, ideal for sharing, at Via Carota, a charming neighborhood restaurant with a long menu that can please a range of appetites and tastes. This weekend you’ll find artichokes — fried, grilled, braised and raw — as well as sweet peas, fava beans and, if you’re very lucky, figs.(Google Map)Before and After: BarsThe bar at the Happiest Hour is always a bit of a party, and so are the burgers, lacquered in shiny, melted American cheese (there’s a good veggie option, too). The vibes are a little more mellow downstairs at Slowly Shirley, especially if you go before/after the rush.You need to know one very important thing about Corkbuzz: Every night from 9 p.m. until the bar closes, and every Sunday all day long, the Champagne bottles are half price. (Bottles start around $100, before that discount.)Flatiron Lounge is one thing during the week — crammed with the neighborhood after-work crowd for happy hour — and another on the weekends, when it’s particularly inviting and open late with soft, comfy seating and carefully made classic cocktails.(Google Map)And NearbyNow it’s time to live your story. This chapter is set in the West Village.• The Tenri Cultural Institute across the street is exhibiting striking large-scale Japanese textiles crafted by a husband-wife pair from Tokyo, until July 3. The gallery is only open assorted hours on assorted days, but you can see plenty from the window, especially at night.• The Jefferson Market Library, a former courthouse, has incredible High Victorian Gothic architecture. Your N.Y.P.L. card works here.• Take a little tour of the hidden alleys of the West Village and consider how many things are tucked just out of sight.(Google Map)Required Reading• Listen to the episode of the Represent podcast where Leslie Harris, director of “Just Another Girl on the I.R.T.,” talks with the New York filmmaker Nikyatu Jusu.• Read “Well-Behaved Women Make History Too,” a Slate article arguing that the “heroic version of history reflects a fundamentally masculine narrative of genius and exceptionalism that is the root cause of women’s underrepresentation in history books in the first place.” Snaps.• For a colorful history of your surroundings, read John Strausbaugh’s “The Village: 400 Years of Beats and Bohemians, Radicals and Rogues.”• Sign up for our Gender Letter newsletter!Extra Extra — All Free• You have three more Fridays nights to really check out the stars, thanks to a local group of amateur astronomers setting up high-powered telescopes at Brooklyn Bridge Park. (Lots of free stuff the next day too.)• In advance of next week’s special-send newsletter (ooh, mystery), take a walking tour Saturday of the South Bronx’s Latin music hot spots.• The Phil Young Experience performs Saturday night at the Marcus Garvey Park in Harlem. An uptown fixture, Young has played with Jimi Hendrix, George Benson and Dizzy Gillespie.• The World Cup has been exciting, whoa Germany! Want to know where to watch the next games? Let us help.• Still searching? Check out The Times’s Arts & Entertainment Guide.From You“Just wanted to send a quick note to say I LOVE this email series and love that it’s ‘wordy’ and that the descriptions have some personality to them! Please keep up the great work!! (And don’t listen to Marsha)” — Anna S.“I agree with Marsha’s quote in the last email. And that’s all I have to say. Thank you for your hard work!!!” — Ben S.From UsTo Anna, Ben and all of you, we appreciate the feedback — positive or negative. Please continue to write us at summer@nytimes.com with tips or suggestions on what you like to do or see.Also check out our previous ideas, which include a day and night out in Brighton Beach.Thanks also to Phoebe Lett of The New York Times podcast club for the smart podcast recommendations.Advertisement