AdvertisementSupported byBy Eleanor StanfordWhat would you like to see here? Email us at popculture@nytimes.com.Hello! Welcome to your daily roundup of what’s going on in pop culture.Netflix almost never releases viewing data of any kind, so I find myself intrigued by any little crumbs of insight into how people use their site. Today they released a list of their 10 shows with “the highest average watch time per viewing session,” or to translate, the shows people have binged the most. Teen shows dominate (“13 Reasons Why,” “On the Block”), and I am kind of horrified to see that people not only watched “Insatiable,” but binge-watched it.This piece by Jason Zinoman on Ellen DeGeneres’s current moment of career indecision is really excellent: Will she quit her wildly popular daytime show (as her wife Portia de Rossi wants) or continue to offer the country a happy hour of dancing and celebrities (as her brother urges her to)?Did you wonder how Kim Kardashian West’s meeting with President Trump (the one that led to the pardoning of Alice Marie Johnson) came about? I certainly did. This Glamour piece breaks it down: how Kardashian West’s friend Shawn Holley, a lawyer she met when Holley was a part of O.J. Simpson’s defense team, coordinated the monthslong effort, and how Kanye West’s declaration of support for the president in April helped expedite the meeting. It’s a fascinating insight into celebrity and influence.Lily, a fuchsia Muppet with a mop of hair, debuted on “Sesame Street” seven years ago, writes Nikita Stewart. Her family, she explained to Elmo, did not have enough to eat. Today Lily will reappear, in videos posted to YouTube, as someone who is homeless, in an attempt to raise awareness of an issue that affects one in 10 New York children.This essay from Kaly Soto, a loyal Hallmark movie fan, about watching Netflix’s holiday movies is funny and sweet and a nice antidote to any hard news you may be reading today. She pairs each movie with a Hallmark offering, so you will have no shortage of cheesy holiday movies to watch over the next couple of weeks. “The Holiday Calendar,” especially, got Soto’s seal of approval:When Jovan Hill needs money for rent or weed, he often asks his online followers. Thanks to years of sharing his day-to-day life and thoughts across social media, he’s built a following more than happy to send him upward of $4,000 a month. “I made this my job,” he explains.Advertisement