AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsA federal judge overseeing Roger J. Stone Jr.’s criminal case issued an order rebuking him on Tuesday for failing to inform her sooner about a new introduction to his book that may violate a gag order because it includes criticism of the current special counsel investigation.After the judge, Amy Berman Jackson of United States District Court in Washington, raised the issue last Friday in a court filing, Mr. Stone asked the judge to consider the new edition of his book an exception to the gag order, which prohibits Mr. Stone from speaking publicly about the legal proceedings against him.Mr. Stone’s defense team has argued that the new introduction, dated January 2019, was written and printed by the publisher before the gag order was put in place on Feb. 21. Mr. Stone said in an Instagram post that the book would be “in stores March 1.”But in Tuesday’s order, Judge Jackson rejected Mr. Stone’s request for her to clarify whether the book falls under the gag order, writing that Mr. Stone had several opportunities to inform the court about the publication of the new edition and that he had failed to do so.“It does not matter when the defendant may have first formulated the opinions expressed, or when he first put them into words: He may no longer share his views on these particular subjects with the world,” Judge Jackson wrote.Mr. Stone and his lawyer did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Mr. Stone, a former campaign adviser and longtime friend of President Trump, faces charges of lying to Congress, witness tampering and obstructing justice related to the investigation by Robert S. Mueller III into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.Mr. Stone was also under scrutiny on Monday for two Instagram posts on Sunday, including one that mimicked a poster for the 1988 film “Who Framed Roger Rabbit?” Under a portrait of himself, he asked the question, “Who Framed Roger Stone?” Mr. Mueller’s office had notified Judge Jackson about the Roger Rabbit post because it potentially violated the gag order.Judge Jackson also ordered Mr. Stone on Tuesday to provide detailed records of communications with the publisher of the book, called “The Myth of Russian Collusion: The Inside Story of How Donald Trump REALLY Won.”She asked for detailed documentation of when the book was scheduled to be available in stores and for online sale, citing inconsistencies in the defense team’s accounts of the publishing dates.Judge Jackson wrote that the defense team had previously referred to the “imminent” rerelease of the book’s contents. Then, on Monday, Mr. Stone’s defense team said the phrase “imminent general release” was a “misnomer” because the book was already for sale. They wrote that the new edition of the book was uploaded to the printer on Jan. 17 and that copies were available at bookstores “on or before the publication date” of Feb. 19.Judge Jackson wrote that Mr. Stone “deliberately waited until public sales were not only ‘imminent,’ but, apparently, ongoing, to inform the Court of the publication effort that had been underway for weeks.”Mr. Stone first got into trouble with Judge Jackson after he posted a since-deleted photo on Instagram on Feb. 18 that appeared to show her next to rifle-scope cross hairs. Because Mr. Stone used his Instagram account in an “incendiary and threatening manner,” Judge Jackson wrote in Tuesday’s order, any consequences stemming from that choice are his to own.“The fact that the order exists at all is entirely the fault of the defendant,” she wrote in reference to the Feb. 21 gag order.In a new introduction to his book, Mr. Stone said that Mr. Mueller had “tried to implicate” him by saying he knew about WikiLeaks’ plans to release information that would damage Hillary Clinton’s bid for the presidency.“There is no evidence whatsoever to support this claim,” he wrote, “even after at least 12 of my current and former associates have been browbeaten by the F.B.I. and at least six of them were dragged before Mueller’s grand jury.”Follow Julia Jacobs on Twitter: @juliarebeccaj.Advertisement