AdvertisementSupported byTracing the origins of the frightening folktale from online comment to Hollywood movie.By Gabe CohnAsk those who know best about what makes this legend so frightening and you’re likely to hear some version of this response: Slender Man is scary not because of what you know about him but because of what you don’t know.“He’s ambiguous,” said Vincent J. Caffarello, a creator of a web series focused on him, “EverymanHYBRID.” “It’s like the trifecta of unknowables,” said Adam Rosner, the creator of “TribeTwelve,” another web series. “Unknown, uncanny and unintelligible.”“The mystery which surrounds him is what rattles my soul,” said the actor Doug Jones, who portrayed him in a 2015 film.The character is a blank canvas for our fears but also for online storytelling. Now the namesake of a new horror film, Slender Man started to take shape in an online forum nearly a decade ago, at a time when daily life was shifting to social media and the border between the online world and the real one was starting to blur. Here’s a look at Slender Man’s evolution. June 10, 2009In a forum of the comedy website Something Awful, a user known as Victor Surge (real name: Eric Knudsen) posts a pair of doctored images and explains they were supposedly found in the library of a small town.In the images, a tall, dark figure is standing behind unaware children. Through discussions, and more photoshopped images and stories, other forum visitors solidified the features of the character known as Slender Man: his facelessness was nearly constant, he typically wore a black suit and he sometimes had tentacles growing out of his back. There was some consensus that he abducted children, and that deaths, commonly involving mutilation, would follow.He completely dominated the discussion.Almost immediately, users began digitally inserting the character into history: they created Slender Man in hieroglyphs and faux 16th-century German woodcuts.They cooked up newspaper articles about him.At the time, Mr. Caffarello said, it seemed like “people were trying to find the best way to use the internet to tell a story.”June 20, 2009After reading the Something Awful thread, a film student at the University of Alabama, Troy Wagner, and his friend, Joseph DeLage, create the first Slender Man web series: “Marble Hornets.” Shot with a cheap home video camera around their state and published on YouTube, it begins with a film student abandoning a project for reasons unknown. As his friend goes through raw footage, it becomes evident that Slender Man was stalking the filmmaker.The simplicity of the character was perfect for low-budget, homemade interpretations. “It was the fact that it was vague,” Mr. Wagner said recently. “I think that’s why people jumped on it.”“Marble Hornets” was a cult hit, gaining fans far beyond internet forums. That November, the film critic Roger Ebert tweeted about it.2010-13In the year after Slender Man was introduced; there were more web series (many with alternate reality game elements), an untold number of stories, blogs, poems and drawings, and discussions on other websites including Unfiction, geared to gamers; CreepyPasta Wiki (horror fans) and 4Chan (everything from conspiracy theorists to cat lovers).Wherever the stories were told, authors put their own stamp on the character. Mr. Koval, Mr. Caffarello and Evan Jennings brought humor to “EverymanHYBRID,” which began as a satirical fitness show in their native New Jersey. Mr. Rosner, after studying YouTube tutorials, added heightened visual effects (like tentacles) to “TribeTwelve.” initially set in Florida.“Tulpa Effect,” a web series initially set in Oakland, took a more psychological approach. “What I was mostly trying to bring to the table was this idea of watching a romantic relationship break down under the stresses of something that’s horrific,” said Marissa Botelho, a creator.A bare-bones video game called “Slender” (later renamed “Slender: The Eight Pages” and expanded in a 2013 follow-up game) is released by a developer named Mark J. Hadley. Players walk around a dark forest collecting scattered pages. Every so often, they have a run-in with Slender Man. Felix Kjellberg, the YouTube star known as PewDiePie, posted a video of himself playing it. The game went viral, and led to yet another popular way to experience Slender Man: reaction videos pairing in-game footage with video of the gamer. “Teens React to Slenderman,” a video published that October by Fine Brothers Entertainment (now called FBE), has more than 23 million views. Benny Fine, a founder of FBE, likened the appeal of these videos to “going to movie theaters and seeing scary movies with your friends. Because it’s fun to all be scared together.” May 2014Two 12-year-old Wisconsin girls are accused of stabbing a classmate, an act they tell authorities was inspired by Slender Man stories. The girls are sentenced to 40 and 25 years in a psychiatric hospital.Some Slender Man series either went dark or on hiatus following the attack. Though appalled by the crime, many creators feel it was sensationalized — Mr. Rosner said he turned down interview requests because it seemed like “they were looking for a finger to point.”“I think that the story genuinely blindsided the grown-ups,” said Shira Chess, an assistant professor of entertainment and media studies at the University of Georgia.May 2015“Always Watching: A Marble Hornets Story,” a low-budget feature based on the web series, is released. Slender Man was played by Mr. Jones, Amphibian Man in “The Shape of Water.” “I’ve played hauntingly quiet characters before, but this one goes beyond quiet with a stillness that is so understated,” Mr. Jones said by email, adding, “I had to trust that sometimes just standing there with a slight tilt of the head was enough to make my human victims come unglued.”August 2018When the trailer for the new film, “Slender Man,” was released earlier this year, YouTube commenters were quick to note the character was a little long in the tooth. Sylvain White, the director of the new movie, which was released this month, said in a phone interview that his first exposure to the character came through video games and a niece who once dressed as Slender Man for Halloween.One of the goals of the film, the director explained, was to go back to the original forum posts by Eric Knudsen, whom he spoke with, and develop a version of “Slender Man” from there. “I really wanted to stay true to the original idea,” Mr. White said.Advertisement