AdvertisementSupported byFrom Our ArchivesLena Dunham appraises the legacy of Diana Athill, who died last month, in this week’s issue. In 2001, the author Evelyn Toynton reviewed Athill’s memoir “Stet” for the Book Review.“I often wondered whether other businesses above the level of sweated labor imposed on their personnel the degree of discomfort we got away with. The country seemed to teem with people, most of them young women, so eager to work with books that they would endure poverty and pain to do so: a situation which we certainly exploited.” Thus does Diana Athill, the doyenne of English book editors, characterize the working conditions at André Deutsch, the distinguished publishing house she helped to found shortly after World War II. Athill, now 83 years old, has made a name for herself not only as one of the most discerning editors of the postwar period but also as an almost unnervingly cleareyed memoirist. In books like “After a Funeral” (1986) and “Make Believe” (1993), she refused to romanticize madness, sex, revolutionary politics or even her own motives. Now, in “Stet,” she has written a memoir of her life in publishing.Despite the reference to sweated labor, anyone gloomy about the current “market orientation” of publishers is likely to feel wistful when reading Athill’s description of the early, chaotic years with Deutsch: “Even in those book-hungry days we would have had to go far to find a piece of fiction more obviously unsalable than those stories, yet once I had pronounced them good we didn’t think twice about publishing them.” While she claims to have been wholly unqualified to be a publisher — “all I have ever been able to do with money is spend it; I loathe responsibility and telling people what to do; and above all I am incapable of selling anything to anyone” — she had near impeccable editorial judgment.Under her guidance Deutsch was the first to publish V. S. Naipaul, Brian Moore and Mordecai Richler, among others, and the first British publisher of John Updike, Philip Roth and Margaret Atwood. She also played a significant role in the re-emergence of Jean Rhys and Molly Keane, both of whom, after long silence, published new novels in their old age that brought them the acclaim that had earlier been denied them. The publishing world may no longer be hospitable to editors like Athill; we have to ask what the loss of the breed is likely to cost the rest of us.Read the rest of the review. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement