AdvertisementSupported byBy Noel MurrayEvery month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for November, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes its schedule without giving notice.[Not what you’re looking for? Find the newest Netflix Australia guide here.]‘The Good Place’ Season 3Starts streaming: Nov. 2In the third season of this wildly creative, refreshingly humane sitcom, four hell-bound humans are back from the afterlife, getting one more shot at leading better lives on Earth. The most recent “Good Place” episodes (broadcast in the United States shortly before Netflix releases them weekly in Australia) have been set all over the globe as the heroes have tried to repair long-broken relationships. The show’s writers, meanwhile, have taken advantage of the diverse locations to riff on the simple dreams and common foibles of everyday folks, from Sydney, Australia, to Jacksonville, Fla.—‘House of Cards’ Season 6Starts streaming: Nov. 2Netflix’s first original TV drama lost its male lead, Kevin Spacey, during production of the sixth season, when he was fired after being accused of sexual assault. The producers scrambled to reshape what they have said will be the final season, giving Spacey’s colead, Robin Wright, the full spotlight. (Well, sort of; click here for a spoiler-filled rundown of how Frank was killed in the off-season.) In these final eight episodes, Wright’s character, Claire Underwood — now the president of the United States — takes what she has learned, in large part from her former husband, maneuvering both to advance her agenda and to crush her enemies, one last time.—‘Oh My Ghost’Starts streaming: Nov. 5This South Korean romantic dramedy (being released by Netflix in weekly installments) is about a shy assistant chef named Na Bong-sun (Park Bo-young), occasionally possessed by the ghost of a randy young virgin, Shin Soon-ae (Kim Seul-gi), who died under mysterious circumstances. The spirit uses her new host body to satisfy her lust and to look more closely into how her life ended. Between the supernatural high jinks, “Oh My Ghost” considers the power structure within the culinary world as the heroine’s crush on her conceited boss alters the course of her career.—‘The Kominsky Method’Starts streaming: Nov. 16From the mind of the veteran sitcom producer Chuck Lorre (best-known for “The Big Bang Theory” and “Mom”) comes a new comedy starring Michael Douglas as the fading minor Hollywood star Sandy Kominsky, now peddling his services as an acting coach. Alan Arkin plays his long-suffering agent and closest pal, while Nancy Travis is one of Sandy’s late-middle-aged students, looking to try something new after her personal life takes a rough turn. Expect some knowing jokes here about fame and acting from a cast and crew of old pros.—[Sign up for our weekly Australia Letter for local news and insights with a global perspective, with some fun thrown in, too.]‘Narcos: Mexico’Starts streaming: Nov. 16The first two seasons of “Narcos” told the story of how the D.E.A. helped bring down the Columbian drug kingpin Pablo Escobar. The third season covered the aftermath of Escobar’s death and the rise and fall of the Cali Cartel. In Season 4, the story line will jump back a decade, from the 1990s to the ’80s, and shift to Mexico with a new cast of characters. The real-life Guadalajara Cartel leader Miguel Ángel Félix Gallardo (played by Diego Luna) and the dogged DEA agent Kiki Camarena (Michael Peña) will form the core of this revamped “Narcos.”—‘Mystery Science Theater 3000: The Gauntlet’Starts streaming: Nov. 22The second season of Netflix’s “3000” revival offers something a little different for longtime fans, as the imprisoned wiseacre, Jonah, and his robot friends are forced to watch six bad movies consecutively, with no breaks. (As always, the names of these gloriously terrible films will be withheld until the new season debuts.) The series’s original creator, Joel Hodgson, is back onboard as the head writer and producer. After a creatively and critically successful first run on Netflix, Hodgson is now playing around with the concept of binge-watching, telling one season-long story while retaining the show’s usual format, in which quipsters make fun of trash cinema.—Also of interest: “Follow This” Part 3 (Nov. 1), “Shameless” Season 8 (Nov. 6), “Riverdale” Season 3 (Nov. 8), “The Sinner” Season 2 (Nov. 9), “Super Drags” (Nov. 9), “Westside” (Nov. 9), “Warrior” (Nov. 13), “She-Ra and the Princesses of Power” (Nov. 16), “The Last Kingdom” Season 3 (Nov. 19), “The Final Table” (Nov. 20), “Motown Magic” (Nov. 20), “Greenleaf” Season 3 (Nov. 22), “Frontier” Season 3 (Nov. 23), “Fugitiva” (Nov. 23), “Sick Note” (Nov. 23), “1983” (Nov. 30), “Baby” (Nov. 30), “Death By Magic” (Nov. 30), “F Is for Family” Season 3 (Nov. 30) and “Vikings” Season 5 (Nov. 30).‘John Leguizamo’s Latin History for Morons’Starts streaming: Nov. 5Recently seen on Broadway, the Tony-nominated “Latin History for Morons” features the actor and playwright John Leguizamo’s return to the stage, where he started doing stand-up comedy and one-man shows in the 1980s. Unlike his autobiographical theater-pieces “Freak” and “Ghetto Klown,” this latest show presents a broad view of world history, correcting misperceptions and telling lesser-known stories about the contributions of Latin Americans to social progress.—‘Loudon Wainwright III: Surviving Twin’Starts streaming: Nov. 13From his earliest days as a singer-songwriter in the late 1960s, the folk-rocker Loudon Wainwright III set himself apart from his peers with his wry sense of humor — as evidenced by his first semi-hit song, 1972’s “Dead Skunk (in the Middle of the Road.” The musical/comedy/confessional special “Surviving Twin” (produced by Judd Apatow) includes a mix of songs, stories, and humorous observations, mostly about the musician’s father, the accomplished writer and editor Loudon Wainwright Jr.—‘Donald Glover: Weirdo’Starts streaming: Nov. 19Given all the work that the Donald Glover has done over the past few years — running the Emmy-winning TV series “Atlanta,” releasing experimental hip-hop records under his alias Childish Gambino, playing Lando Calrissian in “Solo: A Star Wars Story” — it is easy to forget that he was primarily known as a comedian at the start of his career. The 2011 stand-up special “Weirdo” captures Glover at his most relaxed and conversational, telling likable stories about his personal experiences and observations.—Also of interest: “Trevor Noah: Son of Patricia” (Nov. 20) and “Bumping Mics with Jeff Ross & Dave Attel” (Nov. 27).‘The Other Side of the Wind’ and ‘They’ll Love Me When I’m Dead’Starts streaming: Nov. 2Movie buffs have been waiting over 40 years for “The Other Side of the Wind,” an experimental drama that Orson Welles worked on sporadically in the early ’70s but didn’t finish editing before he died. Now completed with the help of some of Welles’s friends and associates, the movie follows a grandiose filmmaker (John Huston) as he struggles to adapt to a changing Hollywood. Welles found unusual ways to combine words, pictures and music in his final film, creating a theatrical experience like no other — even now, this is a cutting-edge work of art. (Netflix is also offering a documentary by Morgan Neville, “They’ll Love Me When I’m Dead,” about how Welles’s rocky final decade affected the production of his final film.)—‘E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial’Starts streaming: Nov. 9Given that it’s a movie about a visiting space alien, the 1982 blockbuster “E.T.” is — surprisingly — one of the director Steven Spielberg’s most personal films. The screenwriter Melissa Mathison took the loose ideas Spielberg gave her about loneliness, fear, imagination and extraterrestrials and delivered an emotionally powerful story, starring Henry Thomas as a plucky kid who develops a bond with the weird monster he finds in his backyard. This picture is as poignant and whimsical as it is thrilling, and it is an enduring depiction of the wonders of childhood in a cookie-cutter suburb filled with broken homes.—‘Outlaw King’Starts streaming: Nov. 9A sort of earthier, more realistic spin on “Braveheart,” this historical action picture features Chris Pine as the Scottish nobleman Robert the Bruce, who left his lordly estate behind to join his countrymen in muddy battlefields to fighting the English. The director David Mackenzie (who worked with Pine on the excellent “Hell or High Water”) delivers a gritty take on the struggle for Scottish liberation, balancing noisy, bloody combat scenes with quieter moments of reflection.—‘The Ballad of Buster Scruggs’Starts streaming: Nov. 16The writer-director brothers Joel and Ethan Coen originally intended “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs” to be a TV Western anthology series, telling a half-dozen tales of frontier life with the dark humor, visual dynamism and philosophical bent fans have come to expect from the team behind “Fargo” and “O Brother, Where Art Thou?” But because these six stories are relatively short, and because the order in which they’re watched matters, the Coens assembled them into a single 132-minute movie. Liam Neeson, Zoe Kazan, Tom Waits, James Franco, Tyne Daly and Tim Blake Nelson (among others) play an assortment of archetypal Old West characters in an omnibus film that runs the gamut from romance to thriller to slapstick.—‘Manchester by the Sea’Starts streaming: Nov. 17This sensitive slice-of-drama drama from the writer-director Kenneth Lonergan won two Oscars: for Casey Affleck’s muted, haunted performance as Lee Chandler, a New Englander wrestling with uncommon grief; and for Lonergan’s script, which takes what could have been a dreary tear-jerker and adds touches of humor and warmth. As Lee moves home after his brother’s death — and becomes a reluctant guardian to his teenage nephew (Lucas Hedges) — he grapples with his dark memories and his anger issues, in a story that is ultimately about how hard it is to recover from tragedy, and how important it is to try.—‘The Polar Express’Starts streaming: Nov. 29A staple of elementary school Christmas parties for over a decade now, this technologically dazzling movie adaptation of the children’s book by Chris Van Allsburg has the look of an animated picture book, thanks to a motion-capture process that turns live actors into painterly digital creations. The director Robert Zemeckis brings a sense of awe and some kinetic energy to the story of a boy who takes a train to the North Pole in order to regain his faith in Santa Claus. Tom Hanks brings his usual affable charm, as the voice and face of multiple characters.—Also of interest: “The Holiday Calendar” (Nov. 2), “ReMastered: Tricky Dick & The Man in Black” (Nov. 2), “Assassin’s Creed” (Nov. 4), “Ali G Indahouse” (Nov. 9), “An American Tail” (Nov. 9), “State of Play” (Nov. 9), “Waterworld” (Nov. 9), “Split” (Nov. 10), “Crazy, Stupid, Love” (Nov. 15), “The Crew” (Nov. 15), “The Princess Switch” (Nov. 16), “The Tribe” (Nov. 21), “Blazing Saddles” (Nov. 22), “The Christmas Chronicles” (Nov. 22), “Fifty Shades Darker” (Nov. 24), “The Great Wall” (Nov. 30) and “The World Is Yours” (Nov. 30)Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Advertisement