AdvertisementSupported byEndangered SpacesTerraza 7 thought it would have to close when the building owner announced plans to raze it. But the building has changed hands and the club seems safe for now.40-19 Gleane Street, QueensEndangered Spaces is celebrating beloved neighborhood institutions that are fighting to stay open in an era of relentless change. Tell us a space we should feature, and send us your memories, at endangeredspaces@nytimes.com.By Karen ZraickYou could say that stepping into Terraza 7, a tiny, eclectic and fiercely beloved music club on the border of Jackson Heights and Elmhurst, Queens, is like taking a trip to Latin America.But that’s not exactly right. Yes, many of the patrons speak Spanish, and the rhythms you’ll hear may have originated in Central or South America. But the bar is a classic New York archetype, a remix that aims to bring together diverse musical traditions and blend them into something new.Freddy Castiblanco, the energetic owner of the bar, sought to foster that syncretism when he opened Terraza 7 in 2002. Its name is a reference to indigenous agricultural practices as well as the 7 train, which rumbles past along Roosevelt Avenue. The bar showcases many types of folk music, jazz, salsa, cumbia and other genres. But the club’s future had been in doubt since 2016, when the owner of the building at the time announced plans to raze it and build a high-rise.In December of last year, after many months of anxiety, Mr. Castiblanco, 47, received some good news. The building had changed hands again and the new owner said he would keep it as it was. And he would keep the club’s rent low. Mr. Castiblanco is still waiting for a new lease, but he is cautiously optimistic. Mr. Castiblanco had been a doctor in Colombia, but decided to emigrate amid what he said was a crisis in the country’s health care system in the late 1990s. He arrived in New York in 2000, and as he set about learning English, his father, who already lived in the city, spotted an empty storefront and suggested opening a business there. Mr. Castiblanco envisioned a bar with live music that would allow his neighbors to celebrate and share their songs and stories. “I wanted it to be a laboratory,” Mr. Castiblanco said. On a Saturday in March, the space hosted three events back-to-back-to-back: a Spanish-language poetry reading in honor of Women’s History Month; a wedding of two musicians who met at the bar; and a concert by a Cuban jazz band.“Terraza 7 is a very generous place with all the artists,” said Juana Ramos, a professor at York College, who helped organize the poetry reading.“They always open the door for us.”The bar also serves as a hub for local activists. It hosted a town hall with Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez last year when she was running for Congress and a campaign fund-raiser for Jessica Ramos, who won a State Senate seat last November. Mr. Castiblanco has also run for office. Last year, he made a bid to represent the Colombian diaspora in that country's Congress.He lost, but he’s had other types of victories: Mr. Castiblanco introduced Jose Manzano and Lorens Tatiana Barrios, the musicians who ended up getting married at the bar, to each other, and he was among those snapping photos as they said their vows. “She came through the door and it was like, ‘Oh my God.’ We started talking about music and ever since that night, we didn’t stop seeing each other. After a month, we decided to get married. It just felt right. It feels right.”— Jose Manzano, 34After the ceremony, the guests watched video messages from the bride’s family in Barranquilla, Colombia, and the couple performed their first dance to a vallenato song, “Mi Novia Mujer,” by Rafa Pérez.Both the bride and groom perform in vallenato bands; he plays the accordion and she sings, often at Terraza 7. Ms. Barrios also tends bar there and coordinates Monday-night karaoke. “This place is very dear to me,” said Elena Bernal, a wedding guest and a Terraza 7 regular who grew up nearby. Ms. Bernal, who is 30 and Colombian-American, said she cherished that such a unique venue with so much Spanish-language music existed. “It helped me embrace my roots,’’ she said, “and showed me how to be in touch with a deeper me.”NEW YORK CITY is known around the world for the big stuff — iconic guidebook attractions like the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty. But New Yorkers know that the city’s essence lies in the smaller, neighborhood places that make up its unique fabric. If not well known, they are certainly well loved: the local dive bar or diner; the quirky Laundromat; the tiny shoe repair shop. And while the city is always in transition, the change these days seems relentless. Beloved spots are succumbing to high rents and are often replaced by chain businesses. Here then is a celebration of places that are closing (or just hanging on).“I wanted it to be a laboratory.”“These kind of comic shops are shutting down left and right.”“It’s been a comfort station for the neighborhood.”“Too much of it is already destroyed.’’“This is the Cheers of Park Slope.”“It’s been a true community effort.”Produced by Meghan Louttit, Eden Weingart, Gabriel Gianordoli and Diego Ribadeneira   Julia Wertz is the author of Tenements, Towers and Trash: An Unconventional Illustrated History of New York CityIllustrations by Julia WertzKaren Zraick is a New York-based reporter and editor, covering a wide variety of stories with a focus on breaking news. Previously she wrote the Evening and Weekend Briefings, and worked on the International Desk and the home page team.  @karenzraick Advertisement