AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Faithful readers! A must this weekend: the raucous yet subtle 1988 opera “Greek,” at the Brooklyn Academy of Music through Sunday. And another must, coming up soon: the best “Messiah” in New York.The time for year-end lists is upon us! Join us in celebrating (and arguing over) our list of the best things we saw and heard in 2018:The classical music world was stunned this week, as Esa-Pekka Salonen, who had long resisted entreaties to take on a new conducting post, was announced as the next music director of the San Francisco Symphony. Apple pitchman, meet Silicon Valley!If you’re looking for a pick-me-up this weekend — it’ll be the perfect thing as you stir about the house getting the coffee ready — take a listen to the joyful, border-crossing noise that is Joël Bons’s “Nomaden,” a concerto for cello and an ensemble of Asian instruments.It has won the prestigious (and, with a $100,000 prize, profitable) Grawemeyer Award for Music Composition.In other news this week, the soprano Julia Bullock — I’m getting tired of calling her radiant, but it keeps coming to mind! — organized a concert of settings of Langston Hughes’s poetry about New York. The Yannick Nézet-Séguin era opened at the Metropolitan Opera with “splendid” conducting and “essentially a traditional staging” of “La Traviata.” And Osmo Vanska, who led the Minnesota Orchestra to new artistic heights and stood by its musicians during a painful lockout, announced he would step down in a few years. ZACHARY WOOLFEIt’s great to have Jack O’Brien’s epic production of Puccini’s “Il Trittico” back at the Metropolitan Opera after nine years, with the fervent yet nuanced conducting of Bertrand de Billy and exceptional casts. Plácido Domingo shows deft comedic skills in the title role of “Gianni Schicchi” and the soprano Kristine Opolais brings out the fragility and torment of the title character of “Suor Angelica.” In the grimly powerful “Il Tabarro,” I was especially impressed by the soprano Amber Wagner as Giorgetta, a restless wife having an affair. Ms. Wagner won attention early on for her rich, powerful voice, suited to vocally weighty roles. Here she is in 2015, sounding glorious in Strauss’s “Ariadne auf Naxos.” She had a breakthrough in 2017 at the Met as Senta in Wagner’s “Der Fliegende Holländer.” But now, as Giorgetta, she is revealing new depths as an actress and more subtleties as a singer. ANTHONY TOMMASINILooking for a holiday gift? This year the record label Marquis released the Canadian pianist Stewart Goodyear’s survey of Beethoven’s piano sonatas (recorded 2010-12) as a 10-disc set. It’s a remarkable achievement for this brilliant pianist and composer who, at 40, has not been heard enough in New York. He plays these seminal works with pristine technique, infectious energy and fascinating attention to details, and uncanny clarity to the contrapuntal tangles of the gargantuan fugue in the “Hammerklavier.” Here he is performing the “Les Adieux” Sonata magnificently two years ago in Frankfurt. And one of my favorite recordings of Tchaikovsky’s “The Nutcracker” is Mr. Goodyear’s 2015 version for solo piano — his own impressively faithful arrangement of the entire score. ANTHONY TOMMASINIJust listen to him dispatching the Overture:Nostalgic operagoers have packed Lincoln Center these last few weeks for a peek at Plácido Domingo’s star turn in Puccini’s “Gianni Schicchi,” in his 50th season with the Metropolitan Opera. But while I share everyone’s fond memories of the man’s Cavaradossi and Otello, the bigger surprise for me on the night I attended was the ingenue who burst onto the stage behind Mr. Domingo. Making her Met debut in the role of Schicchi’s young daughter, Lauretta — she of the plaintive and elevator-friendly “O mio babbino caro” aria — the Russian soprano Kristina Mkhitaryan stopped time with her honeyed, robust voice. Suddenly, one could hear the sound of a thousand fluttering programs as the audience raced to find out who she was.Ms. Mkhitaryan is a relative newcomer to the world’s big stages but is conquering them fast. Born in Novorossiysk and a 2004 graduate of the Galina Vishnevskaya Theatre Studio in Moscow, she honed her talent at the Bolshoi before placing in several major competitions, like Operalia last year. These last few months have been big for her: She debuted as Micaela in the Royal Opera’s “Carmen” and, over the summer, made waves in “La Traviata” at Glyndebourne. Part of her appeal lies in her glamorous sound: She floats the high A flat as though it were made of mist. But the other exciting thing about Ms. Mkhitaryan is undoubtedly her seductive but bold presence onstage. As a review in The Telegraph wondered excitedly in May: “Is Kristina Mkhitaryan the new Netrebko?”JOEL ROZENAdvertisement