AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘AIDA’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Sept. 26, 7:30 p.m.; through Oct. 18). Anna Netrebko sings Aida — yes, Anna Netrebko sings Aida — in the opening week of the Met’s season, and she brings with her a cast that should shake the dust of Sonja Frisell’s monumental old production. Anita Rachvelishvili is Amneris, Aleksandrs Antonenko is Radamès, Quinn Kelsey is Amonasro, Dmitry Belosselskiy is Ramfis and Ryan Speedo Green is the King. (A second cast, with Sondra Radvanovsky in the title role, is in action in the new year.) Nicola Luisotti conducts.212-362-6000, metopera.orgAMERICAN CLASSICAL ORCHESTRA at Alice Tully Hall (Sept. 26, 8 p.m.). It’s often rather easy to take Mozart for granted, especially the Mozart that we hear relatively infrequently in the concert hall. We shouldn’t, of course, and here’s an opportunity to hear one of the composer’s most delicious works, the “Haffner” Serenade, as well as the popular Piano Concerto No. 21. Christian De Luca is the fortepianist; Thomas Crawford is the conductor of this solid period-instrument orchestra.212-721-6500, aconyc.org‘LA BOHÈME’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Sept. 25, 7:30 p.m.; through Dec. 13). Just the 11 performances of Franco Zeffirelli’s picture-perfect “Bohème” at the Met this year, but there’s a surer sense of quality in the casting than has often been the norm in the house’s treatment of its routine productions. Nicole Car is the first Mimì (through Oct. 13), alongside the Rodolfo of Vittorio Grigolo, the Musetta of Angel Blue and a cast that otherwise features Etienne Dupuis, Davide Luciano, Matthew Rose and Donald Maxwell. James Gaffigan, the local boy rising very rapidly to the top, is the conductor.212-362-6000, metopera.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Sept. 21-22, 8 p.m.; Sept. 25 and 27, 7:30 p.m.). After the season-opening gala, Jaap van Zweden’s first year as music director of the Philharmonic gets properly underway with two programs this week. The first, on Friday, Saturday and Tuesday, takes in Stravinsky’s “The Rite of Spring,” Ashley Fure’s “Filament” and Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No. 5, with Daniil Trifonov as the soloist. The second includes the second premiere in two weeks, with Conrad Tao’s “Everything Must Go” prefacing Bruckner’s Symphony No. 8. As my survey of Mr. van Zweden’s complete recordings attested, Bruckner is one of this conductor’s specialties.212-875-5656, nyphil.org‘PROVING UP’ at Miller Theater (Sept. 26 and 28, 8 p.m.). Missy Mazzoli’s third opera, following the success of “Breaking the Waves,” is a one-act piece set on a Nebraskan prairie after the Civil War — “an opera about the American dream,” as the composer put it in a recent interview with my colleague Zachary Woolfe. With a libretto by Royce Vavrek, and in a production by James Darrah, it is performed here by the International Contemporary Ensemble under Christopher Rountree.212-854-7799, millertheatre.com‘SAMSON ET DALILA’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Sept. 24, 6 p.m.; through Oct. 20). The Met opens its new season with a gala premiere of Saint-Saëns’s “Samson et Dalila,” with Roberto Alagna and Elina Garanca in the title roles. Mark Elder conducts a cast that also includes Laurent Naouri, Elchin Azizov and Dmitry Belosselskiy, in a production by Darko Tresnjak, predominantly a theater director who won a Tony for “A Gentleman’s Guide to Love and Murder.”212-362-6000, metopera.orgAdvertisement