AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.ALARM WILL SOUND at the DiMenna Center for Classical Music (Aug. 15, 8 p.m.). The Time Spans festival has quickly carved out a valued place on the contemporary-music calendar, bringing together leading ensembles over five nights. Alarm Will Sound by now need little introduction as one of our foremost new-music ensembles. Here they give the world premiere of Alex Mincek’s “Chimeras,” the American premiere of Zosha Di Castri’s “Phonotopographie” and the New York premiere of “The Intention,” a collaboration between Chris Stark and King Britt. Alan Pierson conducts.timespans.orgAMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at the Fisher Center for Performing Arts in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. (Aug. 11, 8 p.m.). Bard’s annual festival, with its usual schedule of concerts and discussions, looks this year at Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov and Russian music more generally. Saturday night’s concert draws on the conductor Leon Botstein’s uncommon breadth of interests, with music by Tchaikovsky, Balakirev and Serov, as well as Taneyev’s Symphony No. 4 and Rimsky-Korsakov’s Piano Concerto. Orion Weiss is at the keyboard.845-758-7900, fishercenter.bard.eduBOZZINI QUARTET at the DiMenna Center for Classical Music (Aug. 14, 8 p.m.). Kicking off the Time Spans festival, this excellent quartet plays Cassandra Miller’s “About Bach” and Linda Catlin Smith’s “Folkestone.”timespans.orgIGOR LEVIT at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. (Aug. 15, 8 p.m.). If you can make it to the Berkshires in the middle of the week, you’ll be rewarded with an uncommonly interesting program, one dedicated to ideas of freedom. Mr. Levit, an increasingly political pianist, plays Beethoven’s “Eroica” Variations. He is then joined by the JACK Quartet for Schoenberg’s “Ode to Napoleon” and finishes with Frederic Rzewski’s enormous “The People United Will Never Be Defeated!”888-266-1200, bso.org‘IN THE NAME OF THE EARTH’ at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine (Aug. 11, 3 p.m.). Mostly Mozart is making a habit of commissioning large-scale choral works. Following David Lang’s “The Public Domain” in 2016, this year’s comes from a composer with a special relationship to the world beyond the concert hall — the environmentalist composer John Luther Adams. In all, about 800 participants in four separate choruses — North, South, East, West — will come together for “In the Name of the Earth,” under the guidance of Simon Halsey.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalMOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA at David Geffen Hall (Aug. 10-11, 7:30 p.m.). Mostly Mozart’s house band ends its summer season with another account of the composer’s endlessly enduring Requiem. The Concert Chorale of New York is on hand, joining the soloists Jodie Devos, Jennifer Johnson Cano, Andrew Stenson and Ryan Speedo Green. Before that are Mozart’s “Meistermusik” and the Piano Concerto No. 21, with Stephen Hough at the keyboard. Louis Langrée conducts.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalTALEA ENSEMBLE at the DiMenna Center for Classical Music (Aug. 16, 8 p.m.). James Baker conducts two works for this hourlong Time Spans program: Felipe Lara’s “Fringes” and Oscar Bettison’s “Livre des Sauvages.”timespans.orgAdvertisement