AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael M. Grynbaum and Maggie HabermanEllen. Oprah.… Sean?Sean Spicer, arguably the world’s most famous White House press secretary, is developing a talk show with the tentative title of “Sean Spicer’s Common Ground,” in which the former spokesman for President Trump interviews notable people in an informal setting.A pitch sheet for the show’s pilot, obtained by The New York Times, describes Mr. Spicer hosting “some of the most interesting and thoughtful public figures for a drink and some lite conversation at a local pub or cafe.”“The relaxed atmosphere is an ideal setting for Sean to get to know his guests as they discuss everything from the media to marriage,” the pitch continues. “They might even tangle over the merits of making your bed or the value of a great point guard.”No network is attached to the project, but the pilot episode, to be filmed in July, is backed by heavy hitters in the realm of unscripted television. Debmar-Mercury, the syndicator of daytime series including “The Wendy Williams Show” and “Family Feud,” is co-producing with Pilgrim Media Group, which has developed basic-cable staples like “American Chopper.”Reached on Monday, Mr. Spicer confirmed that a show was in the works. “In this current environment, I think it’s important to have a platform where we can have civil, respectful, and informative discussions on the issues of the day,” he told The Times.“Sean Spicer’s Common Ground” would feature one guest per episode — think “Washington Week” meets Jerry Seinfeld’s “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee.”If picked up, the series would mark a return to the medium that turned Mr. Spicer into a minor celebrity. During his last stint on daytime TV — anchoring the White House news briefings — Mr. Spicer earned high ratings, not to mention a “Saturday Night Live” parody, for his testy and occasionally truth-challenged style.The prospective series is one of several ventures that Mr. Spicer, who is represented by the Hollywood agency WME, has pursued since he left the Trump administration last July.He started a podcast, “Everything’s Going to Be All Right,” with the conservative writer Katie Pavlich, and joined America First Action, a “super PAC” formed to support Mr. Trump and his allies.He has written a book on his six-month tenure at the White House, “The Briefing: Politics, The Press, and The President,” that will be released on July 24. An extensive book tour is planned, with a documentary film crew tracking Mr. Spicer’s travels.Mr. Spicer was also recently enlisted to unveil a wax statue of the first lady, Melania Trump, at Madame Tussauds in Times Square.It was pointed out to Mr. Spicer that a talk show emphasizing civility could be a tough sell for a spokesman whose role made him a symbol of the fractiousness and division of Mr. Trump’s time in office.“Maybe if I can be part of having productive conversations with people, we can show a better way,” Mr. Spicer replied, acknowledging that there had been times he could have answered reporters’ questions “in a more effective way.”Among those approached by the production team for the “Common Ground” pilot is the lawyer Michael Avenatti, whose work on behalf of the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels has made him something of a folk hero of the Trump-hating left.“It is pretty funny that while some on the right criticize me for being on television too much, others are soliciting me to appear with them to help sell their shows,” Mr. Avenatti said on Monday.He added that he had already declined the offer.Advertisement