AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.EMANUEL AX at Carnegie Hall (March 27, 8 p.m.). Reliable as ever, Ax makes his way through Brahms, Schumann, Ravel and Chopin in this recital, but heads a little off piste, too, for George Benjamin’s “Piano Figures.”212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgHAGEN QUARTET at Zankel Hall (March 22, 7:30 p.m.; March 28, 8:30 p.m.). The first of this esteemed quartet’s Carnegie Hall concerts this week, on Friday, is as much of a showcase for Jörg Widmann, a clarinetist and leading composer. He plays in the United States premiere of his Clarinet Quintet, as well as in Mozart’s. And there’s even heavier fare on Thursday, when the quartet returns for Schubert’s “Rosamunde” Quartet; Webern’s Five Movements, Op. 5; and Beethoven’s Op. 131.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org‘JULIETTA’ at Carnegie Hall (March 22, 8 p.m.). Bohuslav Martinu’s operatic masterpiece has never appeared at the Metropolitan Opera, but it’s a masterpiece all the same. Trust the conductor Leon Botstein to mount it, then, as he does here with the American Symphony Orchestra and the Bard Festival Chorale. Sara Jakubiak sings the title role, with Aaron Blake as Michel.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgNYFOS NEXT at the DiMenna Center (March 28, 7:30 p.m.). A finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2017 and a crafter of “playful, thoughtful, befuddling, enchanting” music, as my colleague Zachary Woolfe has put it, Kate Soper curates this concert under the New York Festival of Song umbrella. She sings two excerpts from her next opera, “The Romance of the Rose,” as well as “The Understanding of All Things.” There’s also music by Kaija Saariaho, Natacha Diels and Alvin Lucier. Charlotte Mundy and Charmaine Lee are the other featured vocalists; Sam Pluta is in charge of the electronics. nyfos.org/nyfos-next[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]TYSHAWN SOREY at Miller Theater (March 28, 8 p.m.). Sorey has had such success in the past few years that he barely needs one of the Miller’s important composer portraits to spotlight his art, but any opportunity to hear his music is a welcome one. Here there’s a world premiere, “Autoschediasms,” for “creative chamber orchestra,” as well as five other pieces. The International Contemporary Ensemble and the JACK Quartet are on hand to play.212-854-7799, millertheatre.com‘DIE WALKÜRE’ at the Metropolitan Opera (March 25, 6:30 p.m.). See if this “Walküre,” from Robert Lepage’s retooled “Ring,” fares any better than “Das Rheingold” did earlier in the month. Philippe Jordan was a high point in “Rheingold,” my colleague Anthony Tommasini wrote, and he remains to conduct a cast that includes Greer Grimsley as Wotan, Stuart Skelton as Siegmund, Eva-Maria Westbroek as Sieglinde, Günther Groissböck as Hunding, Jamie Barton as Fricka and, most excitingly, Christine Goerke as Brünnhilde. 212-362-6000, metopera.orgAdvertisement