AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘CELLULAR SONGS’ at Le Poisson Rouge (Oct. 14-16, 8 p.m.). Music from the Meredith Monk’s latest work, which had its premiere last March, makes an appearance over three nights, performed by her own, all-female vocal ensemble.lpr.com‘LA FANCIULLA DEL WEST’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Oct. 12 and 17, 7:30 p.m.; through Oct. 27). Jonas Kaufmann steps into the role of Dick Johnson in Puccini’s gold rush tale on Wednesday, taking over midrun from Yusif Eyvazov, and singing opposite Eva-Maria Westbroek’s Minnie. Zeljko Lucic is Jack Rance, Carlo Bosi is Nick, and Michael Todd Simpson is Sonora. Marco Armiliato conducts; the production, by Giancarlo del Monaco, is 27 years old and, according to my colleague Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim, could do with an update.212-870-7457, metopera.orgJUILLIARD ORCHESTRA at Alice Tully Hall (Oct. 15, 7:30 p.m.). Mark Elder, the exquisite British conductor currently leading “Samson et Dalila” at the Met, steps onto the podium to corral the Juilliard’s flagship ensemble through the “Four Sea Interludes” from Britten’s “Peter Grimes,” Strauss’s Oboe Concerto (with Robert Nunes as the soloist) and two works by Sibelius, “Night Ride and Sunrise” and the Symphony No. 7. The week ahead is a busy one for the Juilliard students. On Saturday, the period-instrument players of Juilliard415 are joined by the Yale Schola Cantorum and led by Masaaki Suzuki in a free concert of Handel’s “Alexander’s Feast” at St. Michael’s Church. And on Sunday afternoon, AXIOM under Jeffrey Milarsky plays a sensational-looking program of Knussen, Stravinsky and Andriessen at the Peter Jay Sharp Theater.212-799-5000, juilliard.eduORCHESTRE RÉVOLUTIONNAIRE ET ROMANTIQUE at Carnegie Hall (Oct. 14, 3 p.m.; Oct. 15, 8 p.m.). John Eliot Gardiner brings his excellent period-instrument band to New York for two concerts made up entirely of Berlioz. On Sunday, hear “Le Corsaire” Overture, “Harold in Italy” with the violist Antoine Tamestit, and “La Mort de Cléopâtre” and excerpts from “Les Troyens,” both with the mezzo-soprano Lucile Richardot. On Monday, the “Symphonie Fantastique” is followed by its rarely heard companion piece, “Lélio,” with Simon Callow as the narrator, Michael Spyres and Ashley Riches as the singers, and the National Youth Choir of Scotland.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgST. THOMAS CHOIR at St. Thomas Church (Oct. 18, 7:30 p.m.). St. Thomas’s new Miller-Scott organ, named in part after the former director of music John Scott, is heard here in two concertos, by Poulenc and Barber. Also on the bill, with the Orchestra of St. Luke’s and the men and boys of the St. Thomas Choir under Daniel Hyde, is music by Parry, Janacek and Bernstein. Benjamin Sheen is the organist; Hyesang Park is the soprano.212-757-7013, saintthomaschurch.orgSTILE ANTICO at the Church of St. Mary the Virgin (Oct. 13, 8 p.m.). Miller Theater presents this esteemed British vocal ensemble, supreme in the 16th-century repertoire they sing for this concert, which looks at the music of the court of Elizabeth I. Byrd, Tallis and Dowland are all represented, as are other, less-expected names, like Weelkes, Farmer and Wilbye.212-854-7799, millertheatre.comTAKACS QUARTET at Alice Tully Hall (Oct. 18, 7:30 p.m.). Still the most predictably impressive string quartet in the world, this group gives a refreshingly simple program of Webern’s “Langsamer Satz” and Schubert’s String Quintet, with the cellist David Requiro. If something perhaps a little more radical in execution is in order on your Thursday evening, across town at Zankel Hall at exactly the same time you can hear the Belcea Quartet play Mozart’s “Prussian” Quartet in B flat, Mendelssohn’s furious F minor quartet and a new work by Joseph Phibbs.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/great-performersLES TALENS LYRIQUES at the Morgan Library & Museum (Oct. 16, 7:30 p.m.). The Boston Early Music Festival brings this wonderfully expressive group, led by the stylish harpsichordist Christophe Rousset, to New York for a celebration of François Couperin’s 350th birthday. The program includes music from the “Concert Royal,” written for Louis XIV, solo harpsichord pieces and parts of the “Leçons de ténèbres.”212-685-0008, themorgan.orgAdvertisement