AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. (Aug. 17-18, 8 p.m.; Aug. 19, 2:30 p.m.). A heavyweight weekend in the Berkshires begins on Friday with Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No. 4, starring Yefim Bronfman at the keyboard, and Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 4, which continues this orchestra’s valuable, ongoing cycle of the symphonies. Saturday is the latest installment of Tanglewood’s anniversary tribute to Leonard Bernstein, including a fully staged version of his ballet, “Fancy Free,” in collaboration with the Boston Ballet. There’s more Bernstein on Sunday, too, when the young players of the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra perform his “Three Meditations From ‘Mass,’” in which Yo-Yo Ma is the cello soloist. It is part of a program that also features music by Copland, Bartok and John Williams, whose “Highwood’s Ghost” receives its premiere. Andris Nelsons conducts the lot.888-266-1200, bso.orgDELL’ARTE OPERA ENSEMBLE at La MaMa (Aug. 17-18 and 22-23, 7:30 p.m.; Aug. 19, 2 p.m.; through Aug. 26). This plucky company has made a habit of filling the late-August lull in the city’s classical calendar with interesting productions and thoughtful repertoire, and this year is no exception. In a battle of the old Viennese contemporaries, Mozart’s “Don Giovanni” plays on Friday, Sunday and Thursday, and Salieri’s “La Cifra,” a rather less-known piece, on Saturday and Wednesday. The varying casts are normally eager and accomplished; the direction tends to be simple yet effective.dellarteopera.orgTIME SPANS FESTIVAL at the DiMenna Center for Classical Music (Aug. 17-18, 8 p.m.). Two concerts remain in this contemporary-music series, each interesting in its own way. On Friday, the percussion and piano quartet Yarn/Wire gives the premiere of Alex Mincek’s “Images of Duration (In Homage to Ellsworth Kelly).” Saturday sees the new-music royalty from the JACK Quartet join forces with the whizzes from the SWR Experimentalstudio Freiburg for three quartets that involve live electronics: Felipe Lara’s “Tran(slate),” Sabrina Schroeder’s “UNDERROOM” and Georg Friedrich Haas’s String Quartet No. 7.timespans.org‘THE TSAR’S BRIDE’ at the Fisher Center for Performing Arts in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. (Aug. 19, 4:30 p.m.). The Bard Music Festival concludes with a performance of Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov’s 1899 opera. Leon Botstein conducts the Orchestra Now, in a production designed and directed by Doug Fitch. Head upstate for the weekend and you can also take in the festival’s usual array of smaller concerts, panels and films.845-758-7900, fishercenter.bard.eduAdvertisement