AdvertisementSupported bywordplayAlex Eaton-Salners goes all in.By Deb AmlenTUESDAY PUZZLE — Alex Eaton-Salners is back, and he’s dealing up a pretty easy Tuesday puzzle. The question is, are you feeling lucky today? 1A: Interesting misdirection here. When most people see the word “drafted” in a clue, their minds probably turn to military service (well, mine does, anyway). Today’s clue, however, is about college sports and being drafted into the pros or perhaps semiprofessional leagues after being in the N.C.A.A. 9A: More misdirection! “Longtime members of the bar?” puts one in mind of legal work, but with that question mark, we’re asked to think of other kinds of bars. A SOT is a person who overindulges in alcoholic beverages.9D: SERAPHIC is a pretty word, don’t you think? It’s not common in speech these days, though, which may explain why it’s been used only four times in The New York Times Crossword, and only in pre-Shortzian puzzles at that.12D: Things can be rigged in MacGyver ways, games can be rigged and things can be rigged in nautical terms. There are all sorts of things that can be rigged. But to just say that “It’s rigged” and know that the puzzle wants SAIL is tough for a Tuesday. Thank goodness for those gentle crossings.35D: “Throws on the floor?” sounds as if the puzzle wants a verb phrase, but today it’s a noun phrase. Throws is another name for AREA RUGS.37D: Ooh, I was so close. My original “Nonkosher deli offering” was HAM ON RYE, which fits but is not correct. The answer is HAM SALAD.51D: I will admit that I was fooled by this one, and that almost never happens anymore. “Lots of fluff?” sounds very cozy, but what we’re really looking for is which letter makes up most of the word “fluff.” Those would be EFFS. Very tricky for a Tuesday, but fun.59D: I laughed out loud at this one. Yes, much like the cake in the video game Portal, the clue is a LIE. Three phrases are offered, and they all have consecutive letters in sets of three and two. Boy, that sounds familiar. Where else do we collect sets of three and two?Coming up with a theme set like this is not as easy as it sounds. Mr. Eaton-Salners had to find three phrases with what I would consider to be very unusual letter patterns. For example, at 16A, we have the clue “Groundskeeper’s supply” and the answer is GRASS SEED. The three consecutive S’s and the two consecutive E’s are circled to help solvers see them. This hand of three of a certain rank and two of a certain rank are known as a FULL HOUSE in poker, and that’s our revealer today, at 57A.As I said, its tough to come up with a good set of these, especially with the letter count restraints. As lively as WELL, LOOKY THERE is, the phrase would have sounded more familiar to me had it been WELL, LOOKY HERE. That would have knocked it out of the running, though, for lack of one letter, so the sacrifice here was familiarity for usefulness. I also felt that the “twinnish” clue at 63A, “Groundskeepers’ supplies” for SODS, felt a bit duplicative with the theme clue. Normally, those twin clues and their answers are not only different, they’re also crisp. This didn’t feel crisp to me. The clue for 49D’s SASS (“Lip or cheek”) is great, but I’m not sure it’s so great that it’s worth stepping on a theme clue’s toes. It could have been SASH/HODS, but different strokes for different folks.One thing that would have been cute is a bit of material about the television show “FULL HOUSE,” since the revealer is clued that way. Or maybe some bonus poker fill. But it’s only Tuesday, so maybe this puzzle was kept easy for a reason. Maybe the constructors and puzzle editors are holding their cards close to their chest and will reveal more surprises later in the week.This puzzle took close to two years from conception to publication. I started brainstorming in August of 2016, submitted it to The Times in October 2016, and got an acceptance in February of 2017.Even though this was my third accepted New York Times puzzle, it's my 10th puzzle to be published here. The disparity is primarily because of shorter queue times for Monday, Wednesday and Thursday puzzles. For the past few years, Tuesday has had the longest nonthemeless publication queue. I wonder whether the disparities in publication queue length among different days of the week correlate to disparities in the number of puzzles submitted that are appropriate for that day. Or is there something inherent to puzzles of particular difficulty levels that makes acceptance more or less likely?My original theme constraint was just phrases with a three-of-a-kind and a pair. This more permissive interpretation of a FULL HOUSE allowed for lively phrases like BUSINESS SCHOOL, FOR GOODNESS SAKE and CLASS STRUGGLE. Ultimately, however, I decided that the theme would be better served if the five letters were always in a row with the same 3-2 ordering. Although that reformulation significantly reduced my options for theme entries, it created a much tighter theme and (I hope) a stronger “Aha!” moment for the solver.Along the way, I also changed the revealer from FULL HOUSES to the more natural-sounding FULL HOUSE, which opened up better cluing options, and aligned the three circled areas vertically to create a more ordered feeling for the grid.Back in 2016, the television show FULL HOUSE re-entered the national conversation when Netflix released a sequel called “Fuller House,” with most of the original cast reprising their roles. That show is now filming its fourth season. We'll see if it lasts as long as the original. Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay Advertisement