AdvertisementSupported byBy Tacey RychterDid you know The New York Times publishes close to 30 film reviews each week?Every month, we’ll curate the most relevant and interesting reviews specifically for our Australian audience, based on the local release dates. [Prefer not to go out? Check out our Australian Netflix guide for May instead.]Starring: Robert Downey Jr., Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Evans, Scarlett JohanssonDirected by: Anthony Russo, Joe RussoWhat is it? A “synergistic expression of the corporate interests of Marvel Studios and the Walt Disney Company.”You’ll like it if you liked: “Guardians of the Galaxy,” “Thor,” “Black Panther,” or anything in Marvel’s cinematic universe.Critic’s take: “Above all, the Disney-Marvel combination is a giant machine that manufactures maximum consent. The cosmos is theirs. The rest of us just live in it.”Read the full review by A.O. Scott.Australian release date: April 25Further reading: A.O Scott’s spoiler-filled article about the ending of “Avengers: Infinity War.”Starring: Amy Schumer, Michelle Williams, Emily Ratajkowski, Busy Philipps, Tom HopperDirected by: Abby Kohn, Marc SilversteinWhat is it? A lovable, not-quite-loser “suffers a knockout blow and wakes up believing she is a knockout.”You’ll like it if you liked: “Trainwreck” or “Snatched.”Critic’s take: “The idea that a lack of self-confidence can be essentially bootstrapped away — that all we need to combat oppressive forces is the power of positive thinking and a flattering lipstick — is an exhausted, false fairy tale, one peddled by (among others!) self-help books, beauty companies and, disappointingly, movies like this one.”Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.Australian release date: April 19Further reading: Amanda Hess’s take on “I Feel Pretty” and why expectations for female beauty have never been higher — it’s just taboo to admit it.Starring: Maryana Spivak, Aleksey Rozin, Varvara Shmykova, Matvey Novikov, Daria PisarevaDirected by: Andrey ZvyagintsevWhat is it? A boy in Moscow listens to his parents argue over who will be saddled with the child that neither wants. Then he disappears.You’ll like it if you liked: “Leviathan,” by the same director.Critic’s take:  “It’s a grimly cynical view of modern Russia that’s inarguably blunt (especially in an extended shot of Zhenya, running on a treadmill to nowhere, the word ‘Russia’ emblazoned on her sweatsuit) but no less chilling for that.”Read the full review by Jeannette Catsoulis.Australian release date: April 25Starring: Claire Foy, Joshua Leonard, Jay Pharoah, Juno Temple, Sarah StilesDirected by: Steven SoderberghWhat is it? A stalking victim ends up involuntarily committed to a psychiatric hospital — with the stalker possibly in the building.You’ll like it if you liked: “The Shining” — at least if you enjoy a wide-angle sojourn through a creepy, constrictive hallway.Critic’s take: “Mr. Soderbergh shot ‘Unsane’ primarily on iPhones using additional lenses, including a fish-eye … Big budget or on the cheap, like here, he is a great shooter and he plays with perspective inventively, distorting the edges of the image so they bulge out, a warping that dovetails with Sawyer’s disturbed, disturbing world.”Read the full review by Manohla Dargis.Australian release date: April 25Starring: Kate Mara, Clancy Brown, Olivia Thirlby, Jason Clarke, Ed HelmsDirected by: John CurranWhat is it? In the summer of 1969, a car driven by Senator Edward M. Kennedy runs off a bridge and into a pond, killing a passenger.You’ll like it if you: Would enjoy a refreshingly sober take on the Kennedys, without airy evocations of idealism and tragedy.Critic’s take: “The test that ‘Chappaquiddick’ sets for itself is not accuracy but plausibility. Whether or not events actually unfolded this way, the story the film tells is an interesting and complicated character study, with something to say about the corrosive effects of power and privilege on both the innocent and the guilty.”Read the full review by A.O. Scott.Australian release date: May 10Starring: Christina Hendricks, Gillian Anderson, Honor Kneafsey, Glenn Close, Max IronsDirected by: Gilles Paquet-BrennerWhat is it? A much-loathed patriarch is sent to his grave, and a houseful of resentful, back-stabbing kinfolk are under suspicion.You’ll like it if you liked: “Murder on the Orient Express” or “Gosford Park.”Critic’s take: “At its best, as when Ms. Hendricks swans around her cavernous bedroom bopping to early rock ’n’ roll records, the movie feels like a version of ‘Gosford Park’ taken over by François Ozon. But ‘Crooked House’ is not so often this giddy. The superb cast provides mild pleasures, as do some aspects of the elaborate mystery itself. And that’s all, folks.”Read the full review by Glenn Kenny. Australian release date: May 10Follow Tacey Rychter on Twitter: @taceyrychterWant more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing. Or better yet, just subscribe!Advertisement