AdvertisementSupported byfurther readingHere is a collection of fiction, nonfiction and poetry that didn’t make the “10 Best” or the “100 Notables,” but our editors still found them worthy of attention. Choosing the year’s 100 Notable Books and then the 10 Best isn’t easy. Campaigns are mounted and long debates ensue. In the end, there’s general agreement — on some books more than others — but sometimes there’s disappointment when a favorite doesn’t make the cut. So this year, we asked a few staff members on the Books desk to tell us about their “should a beens” or “could a beens” for 2018.[Read “The 100 Notable Books of 2018.”]One of the most remarkable and mesmerizing books I read this year was “I’ll Be Gone in the Dark,” Michelle McNamara’s true crime story about the Golden State Killer, a serial rapist and murderer who terrorized suburbs in California in the 1970s and 1980s. The book made an impression on me not because of the narrative or the prose, but because it was unfinished, offering a rare window into the messy and psychologically taxing process of researching and writing a book. McNamara was obsessed with the unsolved crimes, but died before finishing the book. Her husband, Patton Oswalt, recruited researchers to finish it, but instead of trying to mimic her voice and flesh out chapters, her co-authors let the jagged edges of the unfinished project show. Some chapters are pieced together from her notes, and are marked with disclaimers. Other sections read like raw, unfiltered research, and one chapter consists entirely of a transcript from McNamara’s interview with a criminalist in the Contra Costa sheriff’s office. McNamara wasn’t alive to see it when the Golden State Killer was finally arrested this spring, but some credited her research for drawing attention to the case. — Alexandra AlterThis year, I really enjoyed reading “Monstress, Volume Three: Haven,” the third collection of the darkly beautiful Image Comics series written by Marjorie Liu and drawn by Sana Takeda. Issues of “Monstress” began to appear in 2015, but the story is so immersive that I wait and buy the annual trade collections so I can binge it up, Netflix-style. Although it’s not for the squeamish when it comes to violence and language, Liu and Takeda have created a vivid, dynamic world, sort of a steampunk Asia of a century ago, and populated it with sharp characters and an intricate mythology that incorporates gods, monsters and everything in between. Female characters dominate Liu’s story line — which unfolds bit by bit like a novel through Takeda’s gorgeous sequential panels — and touches on themes of race, war, duality, friendships and the meaning of family. In all my decades of reading comics, I’ve never seen anything quite like “Monstress,” and even though it falls in the category of epic fantasy, it also confirms my suspicion that sarcastic cats are secretly in charge of everything. — J.D. BiersdorferLynne Tillman’s latest novel, “Men and Apparitions,” makes few concessions to the reader — in this it is like all of her books, which channel slightly neurotic characters (O.K., wholly neurotic characters) and lead us deep into their psyches with little concern for conventional story lines or other helpful guideposts. What they offer instead is nearly claustrophobic access to another consciousness, working out psychological obsessions with verve, intelligence and often comical deflection. In this book the neurotic in question is the ethnographer Zeke Stark, whose ruminations amount to a series of dense essays about Instagram, pop culture and (beneath it all) his baffled pain over the wife who has left him for his best friend. It’s challenging, bonkers and maybe kind of great? — Gregory Cowles It’s been a great year for black women writers. Two books that I think deserved more attention are Nafissa Thompson-Spires’s “Heads of the Colored People” and Sisonke Msimang’s “Always Another Country.” Thompson-Spires short story collection sharply and hilariously investigates black middle-class consciousness. What are the pressures of being the “only one”; how do class politics play out intraracially and what defines an “authentic” black experience? Msimang’s graceful memoir is one of those rare books that managed to make me less cynical about the state of literature. She was born into a family dedicated to South Africa’s liberation and the pursuit of justice. It’s an environment that fosters a particular political consciousness, one Msimang continues to negotiate as she moves from Zambia to Kenya, Canada, the United States and, finally, to South Africa. It’s a coming-of-age story for those children for whom home is marked by more than a single physical location. — Lovia GyarkyeI was blown away by Lynn Vincent and Sara Vladic’s “Indianapolis: The True Story of the Worst Sea Disaster in U.S. Naval History and the Fifty-Year Fight to Exonerate an Innocent Man,” a real feat of investigative reporting (the authors tracked down all the men still alive who had been aboard the destroyer that fateful day during World Ware II). It’s not easy to take a story familiar to almost everyone and turn it into a gripping page-turner, but that’s what these writers have done. — Tina JordanNina Puro’s “Each Tree Could Hold a Noose or a House,” a fearless debut poetry collection, grapples with a concept that seems more prevalent each day: learning to be O.K. with not being O.K. These poems move seamlessly between the personal and political, the literal and the abstract and explore the complexity of the self with a raw, unabashed elegance. Their refreshing, radical honesty offers readers refuge in these uncertain times. — Tas Tobey This has been a year rich in books about the struggles and joys, the frustrations and rewards, of being a mother. The British writer Jessie Greengrass’s first novel, “Sight,” can be fit into that group but offers its own distinct philosophical and lyrical pleasures. It is told by an unnamed narrator who recounts struggling with the decision of whether to have children with her partner, Johannes. Told in patient, psychologically complex prose, “Sight” combines the narrator’s thoughts about her mother, who died several years earlier, and remembrances of her grandmother, a psychoanalyst, with relevant digressions about scientific history. This novel is not for readers interested in plot or suspense: Its largest rewards are in its poetic consideration of time, grief, selfhood and fate. — John Williams[Read “The 10 Best Books of 2018.”]I’ve always found it easy to be drawn into the vividly rendered worlds of Michael Ondaatje’s fiction, and his latest, “Warlight,” was no exception. London in the immediate aftermath of World War II is a place we think we know from so many novels and films, but here it becomes both familiar and mysterious. Seen through the eyes of a teenage boy cast adrift among a motley band of adults and caught in the slipstream of their sometimes illegal activities, the city is a bombed-out zone where fates and identities change with every shift in perspective. And as we accompany Ondaatje’s narrator we realize that he isn’t engaged merely in wonderfully dramatic storytelling but in a brilliant consideration of the puzzle of identity: of how one individual — or any individual — can be shaped by forces he may recognize only much later in life, if ever. — Alida BeckerI can't remember the last book that has moved, unsettled, inspired me the way Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah's debut collection, “Friday Black,” did. From challenging the reader's unconscious biases through a narrator who rates his "Blackness" on a 1-10 scale, to creating a semi-speculative thought experiment in which racism is treated as a cultural pastime, these are stories in which the satirical humor cuts as deep as its gritty violence. — Lauren ChristensenEarlier this year, when California was burning and forest management was a topic of national conversation, the book I couldn’t shake from my mind was Richard Powers’s majestic novel “The Overstory,” about a group of characters brought together to protect a stand of old-growth forest in the Pacific Northwest. The narrative builds to a dangerous act of violent ecoterrorism — but the trees themselves, looming over it all, are the real stars of the show. I also loved Kiese Laymon’s memoir “Heavy,” which is blistering and intimate and unflinchingly honest in its appraisal of his devoted, abusive mother and (at a deeper level) of the American pathologies that provided the context for his childhood in Jackson, Miss. “Don’t fight when you’re angry,” his mother tells him before he starts college. “Think when you’re angry. Write when you’re angry. Read when you’re angry.” Laymon’s response: “I rolled my eyes and sucked hard on my teeth.” But clearly he listened, too. — Gregory CowlesLiterary young women hustling personal essays are a dime a dozen, but Alice Bolin’s “Dead Girls: Essays on Surviving an American Obsession” is the real deal. Her attention to female corpses as an organizing principle of both prime-time — from “Twin Peaks” to “Pretty Little Liars” — and, apparently, the male psyche has generated deserved buzz. But it was her evocative vignettes of a “feral and morbid childhood” in rural Idaho, 80 miles from the nearest interstate, in a home filled with homicide detective novels, that captivated me most. “Everyone knows the American West embodies the twin ideals of beauty and terror — the intersection of the awful and the awesome — but growing up in a homely little town set against a lush and extreme landscape is freakier than that.” — Emily EakinSteven Pinker’s “Enlightenment Now: The Case for Reason, Science, Humanism, and Progress” is essential reading for anyone following debates about the current state of the country, and where we are going. Pinker compiles a mountain of statistics as a rebuttal to pessimists and declinists on both the right and the left, from Dinesh D’Souza to Ta-Nehisi Coates. In almost every way that can be measured, Pinker argues, life in the United States has never been better. — Barry GewenRachel Slade’s “Into the Raging Sea,” is incredible. The book is about the sinking of the cargo ship El Faro during Hurricane Joaquin in 2015, and it tapped all kinds of new technology and new primary sources for a ticktock of the tragedy: El Faro’s black box, emails, taped phone calls, text messages and so on. You’re right there on the bridge with the captain as he makes one awful decision after another. — Tina JordanThe title and subtitle of Catherine Nixey’s splendid first book, “The Darkening Age: The Christian Destruction of the Classical World,” say it all: In the fourth and fifth centuries, the violent and barbaric events otherwise known as “the triumph of Christianity” resulted in an era of “intellectual darkness.” Pious, moralizing literary works “of a newly sadistic strain” began to proliferate (“There were no new Ovids”), and it was an especially bad time to be an idolatrous statue — Nixey is chronicling “the largest destruction of art that human history had ever seen.” It’s enlightening to meet the acerbic Greek intellectual Celsus, the “first great critic” of Christianity, as well as St. Shenoute, one of Christianity’s maddest monks. And it’s always good to be reminded that Monty Python’s “Life of Brian” was marketed in Sweden as “So funny it was banned in Norway.” A perfect gift for the heathen in your life. — David KellyI admire Zadie Smith’s fiction, but the older she and I get (she will always, stubbornly, be just about two years younger than me and orders of magnitude more accomplished), the more I find her nonfiction the truly invaluable side of her. The essays collected earlier this year in “Feel Free” show why. Whether she’s writing about social media, Brexit or art and identity politics, Smith firmly hews to principles while never adopting the self-righteous and condescending tone so endemic to personal and political writing in our time. Her intelligence — and intelligence broadly speaking, as she conceives of it — is a roaming spotlight, not a lamp on a table. In her sight, the world and the people in it are deeply complex and ambiguous, no matter how much we wish they weren’t. As Smith writes in the brief foreword to the book: “Writing exists (for me) at the intersection of three precarious, uncertain elements: language, the world, the self. The first is never wholly mine; the second I can only ever know in a partial sense; the third is a malleable and improvised response to the previous two.” Here’s to Zadie Smith, and to uncertainty. — John WilliamsAdvertisement