AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin Weiser[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The man accused of mailing pipe bombs to critics of President Trump is expected to plead guilty next week in federal court in Manhattan, the court’s docket shows.The defendant, Cesar A. Sayoc Jr., a fervent Trump supporter, sent homemade bombs created with PVC pipe and glass shards to prominent Democrats, including Hillary Clinton and former President Barack Obama, as well as to CNN and the actor Robert DeNiro, the authorities said.The court’s docket entry states only that there is a plea scheduled for Thursday, but it does not indicate what charges Mr. Sayoc will plead guilty to. He was indicted in November on 30 federal charges, including using a weapon of mass destruction and interstate transportation of an explosive.Ten of the counts carry a maximum sentence of life in prison, and under federal law, if he were convicted of a certain combination of those counts, the judge would be required to give him a life sentence. A possible plea deal might center on whether Mr. Sayoc could plead guilty to counts that leave the judge the discretion to sentence him to less time.Mr. Sayoc’s federal public defenders and the United States attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York declined to comment on his expected plea on Friday.Mr. Sayoc, 56, was arrested on Oct. 26 outside an auto-parts store near Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he appeared to be living in a white van covered with images and slogans condemning liberals that are often found on fringe, right-wing social media accounts. One was an image of Mrs. Clinton under cross hairs.His social media feeds were an electronic version of his van. On Twitter and Facebook, he railed against Mr. Obama and Oprah Winfrey with misspelled racial epithets, and threatened former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. He also praised Mr. Trump and conservative causes.The arrest came after a fast-moving investigation and manhunt, as investigators tried to discover the source of 16 pipe bombs sent through the mail. The authorities said they were able to pull Mr. Sayoc’s fingerprints from two bomb packages and found his DNA on components of 10 of the improvised bombs.The indictment against Mr. Sayoc only charges him in connection with five devices that were sent to victims in Westchester County and Manhattan, which are both part of the Southern District of New York.In addition to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. DeNiro, those packages were sent to John O. Brennan, a former C.I.A. director; James R. Clapper Jr., a former director of national intelligence; and George Soros, a billionaire Democratic donor.Federal prosecutors have called Mr. Sayoc’s actions “a domestic terrorist attack.”Mr. Sayoc’s trial had been scheduled for July. Last fall, one of his lawyers asked the judge, Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court, for additional time to investigate the case to determine whether, among other things, there was the possibility of a plea agreement.It is possible that Mr. Sayoc’s plea could fall through. A defendant preparing to plead can change his mind up to the last minute and opt to go to trial.Before his arrest, Mr. Sayoc held himself out as an entrepreneur and bodybuilder who promoted exotic-dance shows in southern Florida. But he was also an angry, bankrupt loner who often lived out of his van, held far-right political views and was prone to racist and sexist tirades, according to court documents and people who knew him.A guilty plea by Mr. Sayoc would resolve one of the major terrorism prosecutions pending in Manhattan. In another case, Judge Vernon S. Broderick on Tuesday granted a defense request for a six-month delay in the trial of Sayfullo Saipov, scheduling it for April 13, 2020.Mr. Saipov was charged with using a pickup truck to kill eight people on a Manhattan bike path in 2017. He has pleaded not guilty, and if he is convicted, he could face the death penalty.Follow Benjamin Weiser on Twitter: @BenWeiserNYTAdvertisement