AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnThe Oscars air on ABC. And for those without cable, three other movies our chief critics liked in 2018 but weren’t nominated are streaming.THE 91ST ANNUAL ACADEMY AWARDS 8 p.m. on ABC. Will Netflix win an Oscar for best picture, further legitimizing streaming services as a viable outlet for A-list filmmakers? Will Glenn Close pick up her first statuette? And just how many speeches will Alfonso Cuarón end up giving? These are some of the questions wafting through the Hollywood air in the lead-up to the Academy Awards, which will go on, hostless, steeped in controversies and ready to prove (or disprove) your predictions. Look out for Jennifer Hudson singing a song from “Mary Poppins Returns,” plus duets from Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper and Gillian Welch and David Rawlings; a showdown in the wide-open best supporting actress category; and the potential glory of an acceptance speech from Spike Lee, who, for the first time in his career, has a shot at the award for best director.THE RIDER (2018) Steam on Starz; Rent on Vudu. The second feature by the Chinese director Chloé Zhao blends fact and fiction to tell the story of a South Dakota rodeo champion played by Brady Jandreau, a nonprofessional actor whose character, Brady, is a fictionalized version of himself. After a head injury, Brady is warned by a doctor not to do any more riding — a prescription that leads him to a crisis of identity and woe. In his review for The New York Times, A.O. Scott wrote that Zhao has “a bold, exacting vision that makes ‘The Rider’ exceptional among recent American regional-realist films.”ZAMA (2018) Stream on Amazon; Rent on Amazon, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube. A tale of colonialism, loneliness and an absurd llama, this 18th-century-set movie from the Argentine filmmaker Lucrecia Martel stars Daniel Giménez Cacho as an official of the Spanish empire all but stranded in the New World. Based on the 1956 novel by Antonio di Benedetto, it follows Don Diego de Zama, a loyal bureaucrat whose requests for a transfer away from the remote colony where he’s stationed become increasingly more desperate. Manohla Dargis called the movie a “cinematic marvel” in her review for The Times. She wrote that Giménez Cacho gives “an expressive yet reserved performance that pulls you in intellectually rather than emotionally.”BURNING (2018) Rent on Amazon, Google Play and YouTube. A roughly 10-page short story by Haruki Murakami extends into an 148-minute slow-burn here, by way of the South Korean director Lee Chang-dong. It’s a boy-meets-girl kind of story (with Ah-in Yoo and Jong-seo Jun), one that dives headfirst into sexual pining, issues of class and jealousy. American audiences will recognize Steven Yeun (of “The Walking Dead” and last year’s “Sorry to Bother You”) as the third major character: a rich, unnervingly mysterious young man.Advertisement