AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘DEMON’ at the Fisher Center for the Performing Arts in Annondale-on-Hudson, N.Y. (July 27, 8 p.m.; through Aug. 5). Bard SummerScape’s main operatic offering is Anton Rubinstein’s “Demon,” a rarity from 1871 exhumed by that master of the forgotten, the conductor Leon Botstein. He leads the American Symphony in a production by Thaddeus Strassberger, which features Efim Zavalny in the title role opposite Olga Tolkmit, who starred in Bard’s “Dimitrij” last summer.845-758-7900, fishercenter.bard.eduFESTIVAL OF CONTEMPORARY MUSIC at Tanglewood in Lenox, Mass. (July 27, 2:30 p.m.; July 28, 6 p.m.; July 29, 10 a.m.; July 30, 8 p.m.). The Boston Symphony’s concerts in the Berkshires this weekend are fairly routine, but much less so is this annual festival, directed this year by the composer Thomas Adès. Mostly made up of chamber music, the festival includes highlights such as music by Rebecca Saunders, Conlon Nancarrow and Jonathan Harvey on Friday; Judith Weir, Sean Shepherd and Andrew Norman on Saturday; and Gerald Barry, Harrison Birtwistle and Oliver Knussen on Sunday. Monday’s concert involves the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra playing Lutoslawski’s Symphony No. 3 and Mr. Adès’s own piano concerto, “In Seven Days,” with the soloist Kirill Gerstein. Mr. Adès and Mr. Gerstein, incidentally, appear on Wednesday night in a concert of double-piano music.888-266-1200, bso.orgINTERNATIONAL CONTEMPORARY ENSEMBLE at Gerald W. Lynch Theater (Aug. 2, 7:30 p.m.). This concert, from the nation’s most important new-music ensemble, asks how pianos and technology can interact. John Adams’s “Grand Pianola Music” uses tape loops; Courtney Bryan’s “Songs of Laughing, Smiling and Crying” involves YouTube recordings; George Lewis’s “Voyager,” in a revised version, relies on artificial intelligence. Beforehand, at 6 p.m. in the Bruno Walter Auditorium, Ms. Bryan and Mr. Lewis are joined by Michael Pisaro and Ashley Fure for a free talk about the compositional process.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalMOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA at David Geffen Hall (July 27-28, 7:30 p.m.; July 31-Aug. 1, 7:30 p.m.). Two programs are on offer this week from Mostly Mozart’s house band: The first is led by the stylish Baroque specialist Richard Egarr and includes selections from Handel, notably parts of the “Water Music,” and Bach of the popular hits variety — the “Brandenburg” Concerto No. 5 and the Orchestral Suite No. 3 (with its “Air”). Joshua Bell is the star drafted for the second program. He plays Bruch’s Violin Concerto. In addition, Louis Langrée conducts John Adams’s “Tromba Lontana” and Brahms’s Symphony No. 2.212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/mostly-mozart-festivalORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE’S at the Naumburg Bandshell (July 31, 7:30 p.m.). The last of the chamber orchestra concerts at this summer’s free Central Park series is the hometown band playing Vivaldi — and only Vivaldi. Rather inevitably, that means a performance of “The Four Seasons,” with Krista Bennion Feeney as the soloist. But there’s also the Concerto for Strings in C and “In furore iustissimae irae,” sung by the soprano Sherezade Panthaki.naumburgconcerts.org‘TANCREDI’ at the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College in Purchase, N.Y. (July 28 and Aug. 3, 7 p.m.). Bel Canto at Caramoor has departed for Purchase, with a new name, Teatro Nuovo, but with its conductor and director, Will Crutchfield, and many of its traditions intact. Three operas are on show this year, the first being Rossini’s first hit. Tamara Mumford sings the title role, joined by Amanda Woodbury, Santiago Ballerini and others. Rossini’s updated version of “Tancredi” will be performed on Aug. 5; the other production is Mayr’s “Medea in Corinto,” on Sunday and Aug. 4.914-251-6200, teatronuovo.orgAdvertisement