AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.ATTACCA QUARTET at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church (Sept. 28, 7:30 p.m.). This string quartet’s complete survey of Haydn’s 68 works in the genre was one of the hidden joys of the New York scene for many years; now they have moved on to Beethoven. On the bill this time are the fourth and fifth of the six Op. 18 quartets, and the titanic Op. 130.attaccaquartet.comJUILLIARD ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (Sept. 29, 8 p.m.). The Bernstein celebrations continue, still, with this concert, led by one of his students, Marin Alsop. It celebrates Bernstein as a conductor, a composer and an influence, with Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 5, his own “Songfest,” and “A Bernstein Birthday Bouquet,” featuring tributes from Berio, Kirchner, Foss, Takemitsu and more who benefited from his advocacy.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org‘THE MILE-LONG OPERA: A BIOGRAPHY OF 7 O’CLOCK’ on the High Line (Oct. 3-7, 7 p.m.). David Lang’s community-participation opera for 1,000 singers, with words by Anne Carson and Claudia Rankine and a production by Diller Scofidio & Renfro, the architects who designed the High Line, tells hundreds of stories of what 7 p.m. means to New Yorkers across the city. Admission is free, but you need to register for tickets, and there’s a wait list.milelongopera.comNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Oct. 4, 7:30 p.m.; through Oct. 6). The third program of Jaap van Zweden’s subscription season includes a third major premiere, Louis Andriessen’s “Agamemnon,” as well as Debussy’s “La Mer,” Stravinsky’s “Symphonies of Wind Instruments” and his Violin Concerto, with Leila Josefowicz.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgTHE ORCHESTRA NOW at the Metropolitan Museum of Art (Sept. 30, 2 p.m.). This is the first of three Sight and Sound events led by Leon Botstein this season, all of which involve discussion of the relationship between particular pieces of music and works of visual art. Here, the young players of this orchestra and the baritone Michael Anthony McGee help put Mahler’s “Kindertotenlieder” in the context of Klimt, Schiele and Picasso. Children can attend for $1.212-535-7710, metmuseum.orgSAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY at Carnegie Hall (Oct. 3, 7 p.m.; Oct. 4, 8 p.m.). Michael Tilson Thomas kicks off his Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall this year with this season-opening visit from the Californian orchestra he has led for over two decades. Following a recent trend, the programs are not as innovative as they once were. Wednesday’s gala includes Gershwin, Liszt and a selection of vocal numbers sung by Renée Fleming and Audra McDonald. Thursday’s affair is all Stravinsky, with “Pétrouchka,” “The Rite of Spring” and — at nearly the same time as you can hear it a few blocks north at the Philharmonic — the Violin Concerto. Leonidas Kavakos is the soloist.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgAdvertisement