Accessibility links
		Saturday 20 April 2019
							By Mick Brown12:10AM GMT 11 Mar 2010 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world
 Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 Related PartnersLove puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph PuzzlesBooks on Amazon.co.ukIn Books
Top Galleries

Culture Galleries

More from the web

More from the web 

Telegraph Books»

One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II

A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 

This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 

The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends

A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase

More from the web
Back to top© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019Terms and Conditions Today's NewsArchiveStyle BookWeather Forecast

Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Telegraph.co.uk














		Saturday 20 April 2019








/* EPOCH time at the  end of Header */
var tmgHeaderTimerEnd=Date.now();








Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Business
Money
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Film










Film
TV and Radio
Books
Music
Comedy
Art
Theatre
Photography
Dance
Opera
Hay Festival
Glyndebourne




Best Books To Read
Book Reviews
Fiction
Non-Fiction
Children's Books
Book Shop
Ways With Words
Books Video





Advertisement




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("ban", "970x250,970x90,940x250,728x90,468x60", "adj", "", 2));






Home»
Culture»
Books











Ian McEwan interview: warming to the topic of climate change

Ian McEwan is that rarest of things: a highly acclaimed literary writer whose 
  books sell in their millions. But his new novel Solar brings humour to the 
  vexed debate about climate change – and he is preparing to take some flak. 













 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL












 



							By Mick Brown

12:10AM GMT 11 Mar 2010
 


 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Related Articles



Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world

08 Nov 2010



 Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 




        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        









Books





News »


Earth »


Climate Change »


Author interviews »


Editor's Choice »













 


Telegraph Book Shop










Related Partners





Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles







Books on Amazon.co.uk






In Books






 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor








 


Top ten most famous books we never finish








 


The 100 novels everyone should read








 


The 85 best books of 2014








 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries






















Top Galleries








Advertisement

		<!--
			google_ad_client = 'ca-telegraph_uk_300x250';
			google_ad_channel = 'culture';
			google_max_num_ads = '3';
			google_ad_output="js";
			google_ad_type="text";
			google_language="en";
			google_encoding="utf8";
			google_safe="high";
			
			
			
							google_hints="books";
												
		// -->
		


























        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        




     /* EPOCH time at the start of MPU Ad */
     var mpuAdTimerStart = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("mpu", "300x250,300x600", "adj", "", 2));







Culture Galleries







 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians








 


80 great quotes about love and romance








 


The best British political insults








 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations








 


30 great one-liners








 


A history of the world in funny puns



 



Like Telegraph Books on Facebook



Culture Video»










Oscars 2016 highlights











Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes











Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar











Leo attends the Oscars after-party











Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors











Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights



 










        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web










     /* EPOCH time at the start of skyscraper Ad */
     var startOfSkyscraper = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("hpg,sks,skl", "300x600,120x600,160x600", "adj", "", 2));



Advertisement




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("yell", "300x150", "adj", "", 2));





        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web 


















				var expandMostCommentedArticles = false;
				var expandMostSharedArticles = false;
				var expandMostViewedArticlesTab = true;
				var mostCommentedAccordionValue = 0;
				var mostSharedAccordionValue = 1;
				var mostViewedAccordionValue = 2;
			






        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



Telegraph Books»






 


Robert Weintraub's No Better Friend




One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II








 


Winston Churchill at the Telegraph




A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 








 


Sinclair McKay's The Secret Life Of Fighter Command




This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 








 


Pet Tales : Extraordinary Pets from Ordinary Homes




The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends








 


The Birds of America




A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase






        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web








 
					(function() { 
			        var outbrainScriptTag = document.createElement('script'); 
			        outbrainScriptTag.type = 'text/javascript'; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.async = true; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.id = "outbrain"; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.src = 'http://widgets.outbrain.com/outbrain.js' ; 
			        var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; 
			        s.parentNode.insertBefore(outbrainScriptTag, s); 
					})(); 
					


                /* EPOCH time at the end of right hand column */
                 var rightHandTimer=Date.now();
                












 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View







 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news and results



                                View












/* EPOCH time at the end of content Area */
                var contentEndTimer = Date.now();

Back to top




HOME
Film
Film Reviews
Film News

Books

Book Reviews
Book Shop

 
Music
Music Reviews
Classical Music
Music Video

Music Festivals

Opera
Tickets

 
TV and Radio
TV Guide
Theatre
Theatre Reviews

Art

Dance
Dating

 
Culture News
Picture Galleries
Culture Video
Culture Critics

Photography

Crossword
Theatre Tickets

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 

/* EPOCH time at the end of footer */
                var footerEndTimer = Date.now();




Telegraph.co.uk














		Saturday 20 April 2019








Telegraph.co.uk














		Saturday 20 April 2019




Telegraph.co.uk













		Saturday 20 April 2019




















		Saturday 20 April 2019





		Saturday 20 April 2019



		Saturday 20 April 2019





Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Business
Money
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Film










Film
TV and Radio
Books
Music
Comedy
Art
Theatre
Photography
Dance
Opera
Hay Festival
Glyndebourne




Best Books To Read
Book Reviews
Fiction
Non-Fiction
Children's Books
Book Shop
Ways With Words
Books Video





Advertisement




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("ban", "970x250,970x90,940x250,728x90,468x60", "adj", "", 2));






Home»
Culture»
Books






Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Business
Money
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Film










Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Business
Money
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Film






Film
TV and Radio
Books
Music
Comedy
Art
Theatre
Photography
Dance
Opera
Hay Festival
Glyndebourne



Best Books To Read
Book Reviews
Fiction
Non-Fiction
Children's Books
Book Shop
Ways With Words
Books Video




Advertisement




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("ban", "970x250,970x90,940x250,728x90,468x60", "adj", "", 2));




Advertisement




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("ban", "970x250,970x90,940x250,728x90,468x60", "adj", "", 2));


Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("ban", "970x250,970x90,940x250,728x90,468x60", "adj", "", 2));




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("ban", "970x250,970x90,940x250,728x90,468x60", "adj", "", 2));


	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("ban", "970x250,970x90,940x250,728x90,468x60", "adj", "", 2));


Home»
Culture»
Books








Ian McEwan interview: warming to the topic of climate change

Ian McEwan is that rarest of things: a highly acclaimed literary writer whose 
  books sell in their millions. But his new novel Solar brings humour to the 
  vexed debate about climate change – and he is preparing to take some flak. 













 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL












 



							By Mick Brown

12:10AM GMT 11 Mar 2010
 


 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Related Articles



Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world

08 Nov 2010



 Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 




        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        









Books





News »


Earth »


Climate Change »


Author interviews »


Editor's Choice »













 


Telegraph Book Shop










Related Partners





Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles







Books on Amazon.co.uk






In Books






 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor








 


Top ten most famous books we never finish








 


The 100 novels everyone should read








 


The 85 best books of 2014








 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries






















Top Galleries








Advertisement

		<!--
			google_ad_client = 'ca-telegraph_uk_300x250';
			google_ad_channel = 'culture';
			google_max_num_ads = '3';
			google_ad_output="js";
			google_ad_type="text";
			google_language="en";
			google_encoding="utf8";
			google_safe="high";
			
			
			
							google_hints="books";
												
		// -->
		


























        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        




     /* EPOCH time at the start of MPU Ad */
     var mpuAdTimerStart = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("mpu", "300x250,300x600", "adj", "", 2));







Culture Galleries







 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians








 


80 great quotes about love and romance








 


The best British political insults








 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations








 


30 great one-liners








 


A history of the world in funny puns



 



Like Telegraph Books on Facebook



Culture Video»










Oscars 2016 highlights











Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes











Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar











Leo attends the Oscars after-party











Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors











Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights



 










        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web










     /* EPOCH time at the start of skyscraper Ad */
     var startOfSkyscraper = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("hpg,sks,skl", "300x600,120x600,160x600", "adj", "", 2));



Advertisement




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("yell", "300x150", "adj", "", 2));





        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web 


















				var expandMostCommentedArticles = false;
				var expandMostSharedArticles = false;
				var expandMostViewedArticlesTab = true;
				var mostCommentedAccordionValue = 0;
				var mostSharedAccordionValue = 1;
				var mostViewedAccordionValue = 2;
			






        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



Telegraph Books»






 


Robert Weintraub's No Better Friend




One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II








 


Winston Churchill at the Telegraph




A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 








 


Sinclair McKay's The Secret Life Of Fighter Command




This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 








 


Pet Tales : Extraordinary Pets from Ordinary Homes




The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends








 


The Birds of America




A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase






        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web








 
					(function() { 
			        var outbrainScriptTag = document.createElement('script'); 
			        outbrainScriptTag.type = 'text/javascript'; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.async = true; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.id = "outbrain"; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.src = 'http://widgets.outbrain.com/outbrain.js' ; 
			        var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; 
			        s.parentNode.insertBefore(outbrainScriptTag, s); 
					})(); 
					


                /* EPOCH time at the end of right hand column */
                 var rightHandTimer=Date.now();
                












 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View







 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news and results



                                View















Ian McEwan interview: warming to the topic of climate change

Ian McEwan is that rarest of things: a highly acclaimed literary writer whose 
  books sell in their millions. But his new novel Solar brings humour to the 
  vexed debate about climate change – and he is preparing to take some flak. 













 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL












 



							By Mick Brown

12:10AM GMT 11 Mar 2010
 


 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Related Articles



Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world

08 Nov 2010



 Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 




        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        









Books





News »


Earth »


Climate Change »


Author interviews »


Editor's Choice »













 


Telegraph Book Shop










Related Partners





Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles







Books on Amazon.co.uk






In Books






 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor








 


Top ten most famous books we never finish








 


The 100 novels everyone should read








 


The 85 best books of 2014








 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries






















Top Galleries








Advertisement

		<!--
			google_ad_client = 'ca-telegraph_uk_300x250';
			google_ad_channel = 'culture';
			google_max_num_ads = '3';
			google_ad_output="js";
			google_ad_type="text";
			google_language="en";
			google_encoding="utf8";
			google_safe="high";
			
			
			
							google_hints="books";
												
		// -->
		


























        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        




     /* EPOCH time at the start of MPU Ad */
     var mpuAdTimerStart = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("mpu", "300x250,300x600", "adj", "", 2));







Culture Galleries







 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians








 


80 great quotes about love and romance








 


The best British political insults








 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations








 


30 great one-liners








 


A history of the world in funny puns



 



Like Telegraph Books on Facebook



Culture Video»










Oscars 2016 highlights











Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes











Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar











Leo attends the Oscars after-party











Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors











Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights



 










        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web










     /* EPOCH time at the start of skyscraper Ad */
     var startOfSkyscraper = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("hpg,sks,skl", "300x600,120x600,160x600", "adj", "", 2));



Advertisement




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("yell", "300x150", "adj", "", 2));





        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web 


















				var expandMostCommentedArticles = false;
				var expandMostSharedArticles = false;
				var expandMostViewedArticlesTab = true;
				var mostCommentedAccordionValue = 0;
				var mostSharedAccordionValue = 1;
				var mostViewedAccordionValue = 2;
			






        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



Telegraph Books»






 


Robert Weintraub's No Better Friend




One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II








 


Winston Churchill at the Telegraph




A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 








 


Sinclair McKay's The Secret Life Of Fighter Command




This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 








 


Pet Tales : Extraordinary Pets from Ordinary Homes




The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends








 


The Birds of America




A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase






        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web








 
					(function() { 
			        var outbrainScriptTag = document.createElement('script'); 
			        outbrainScriptTag.type = 'text/javascript'; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.async = true; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.id = "outbrain"; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.src = 'http://widgets.outbrain.com/outbrain.js' ; 
			        var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; 
			        s.parentNode.insertBefore(outbrainScriptTag, s); 
					})(); 
					


                /* EPOCH time at the end of right hand column */
                 var rightHandTimer=Date.now();
                







Ian McEwan interview: warming to the topic of climate change

Ian McEwan is that rarest of things: a highly acclaimed literary writer whose 
  books sell in their millions. But his new novel Solar brings humour to the 
  vexed debate about climate change – and he is preparing to take some flak. 













 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL












 



							By Mick Brown

12:10AM GMT 11 Mar 2010
 


 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Related Articles



Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world

08 Nov 2010



 Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 




        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        









Books





News »


Earth »


Climate Change »


Author interviews »


Editor's Choice »













 


Telegraph Book Shop










Related Partners





Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles







Books on Amazon.co.uk






In Books






 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor








 


Top ten most famous books we never finish








 


The 100 novels everyone should read








 


The 85 best books of 2014








 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries






















Top Galleries








Advertisement

		<!--
			google_ad_client = 'ca-telegraph_uk_300x250';
			google_ad_channel = 'culture';
			google_max_num_ads = '3';
			google_ad_output="js";
			google_ad_type="text";
			google_language="en";
			google_encoding="utf8";
			google_safe="high";
			
			
			
							google_hints="books";
												
		// -->
		















Ian McEwan interview: warming to the topic of climate change

Ian McEwan is that rarest of things: a highly acclaimed literary writer whose 
  books sell in their millions. But his new novel Solar brings humour to the 
  vexed debate about climate change – and he is preparing to take some flak. 












 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL












 



							By Mick Brown

12:10AM GMT 11 Mar 2010
 


 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Related Articles



Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world

08 Nov 2010



 Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 




        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        








 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL












 



							By Mick Brown

12:10AM GMT 11 Mar 2010
 


 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Related Articles



Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world

08 Nov 2010



 Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 







 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL
















 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL














 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES





 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES





 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL












 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES


 
Image 1 of 3

Photo: KEVIN DAVIES
 Image 1 of 3
Photo: KEVIN DAVIES


 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES


 
Image 1 of 3

McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES
 Image 1 of 3
McEwan with his wife, Analeena McAfee, at the 2007 premiere of the film of his book Atonement Photo: CAPITAL PICTURES


 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL


 
Image 1 of 3

Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL
 Image 1 of 3
Ian McEwan (right) with Cape Farewell's founder, David Buckland, on their expedition to the Arctic Ocean Photo: COURTESY OF CAPE FAREWELL




 


							By Mick Brown

12:10AM GMT 11 Mar 2010
 


							By Mick Brown
 
 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Related Articles



Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world

08 Nov 2010



 Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 
 An hour into my interview with Ian McEwan the doorbell rings. McEwan rises from the sofa in the elegant living-room where we are talking and goes to answer it. From the hallway I can hear the sound of conversation.  McEwan is 61. His long, ascetic face, with narrow eyes behind rimless glasses, lends him an expression of perpetual seriousness that belies his underlying mood of sardonic good humour. His untidy grey hair, sweater and baggy black trousers give him the look of a sociology professor at a red-brick university. He lives with his second wife, the journalist Analeena McAfee, in a large and exceedingly handsome townhouse in a London square within a stone’s throw of Telecom Tower. Readers of his bestselling novel Saturday, which was published in 2005, will be familiar with the setting.  McEwan bought the house shortly before writing that book, and it is the model for the home of its protagonist, the neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, lovingly described by McEwan: 'The Perownes’ own corner, a triumph of congruent proportion; the perfect square laid out by Robert Adam enclosing a perfect circle of garden – an 18th-century dream bathed and embraced by modernity, by street light from above, and from below by fibre-optic cables, and cool fresh water coursing down pipes, and sewage borne away in an instant of forgetting.’  McEwan’s house is a place of gleaming stone floors, capacious rooms and high ceilings; in the sitting-room, two elegant leather sofas face each other across a large coffee table; Bridget Riley paintings flank the marble fireplace; an opposite wall is dominated by a large Donna McLean canvas of London’s Westway.  McEwan comes back into the room with an amused expression on his face. 'One of that strange breed of puer eternis men who deliver packages around London on bicycles,’ he says. 'He said, Are you Ian McKellen the writer?’ The bewildered smile suggests the mistake is not uncommon – although not, perhaps, when his name happens to be printed on the envelope. 'Then he said he was a writer himself and would I mind looking over his stuff.’ He gives a deep sigh. 
Related Articles



Ian McEwan's cold comfort for science world

08 Nov 2010


Related Articles Of the generation that came of age in the 1980s, McEwan has outstripped the pack. Not only is he the supreme stylist of British fiction, he is that rarest of things – a literary writer whose sales outstrip those of most 'popular’ writers. In a survey published last December of the bestselling authors in Britain over the past decade, McEwan ranked number 37, with sales of more than four million, generating a revenue of £27.7 million. This, admittedly, is some distance behind JK Rowling and the Mr Men author Roger Hargreaves, who occupied first and second place, and such popular blockbusters as John Grisham, Danielle Steel and James Patterson, but far more than any of his literary contemporaries – Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, Salman Rushdie or Kazuo Ishiguro.  McEwan is about to publish a new novel, Solar, about global warming. It tells the story of a Nobel-Prize-winning physicist, Michael Beard, who stumbles upon a way of producing energy that promises to solve the world’s energy crisis. It contains McEwan’s customary mixture of a page-turning narrative drive, perceptive characterisation and acute observation. But, more unusually for him, it is also very funny. As he demonstrated with Amsterdam – his satire on the subject of moral responsibility, and the novel that won him the Booker Prize in 1998 – McEwan is no stranger to sardonic humour. But Solar could rightly be described as his first comic novel.  McEwan says he had been thinking of writing about climate change for some years, 'but it just seemed so huge and so distorted by facts and figures and graphs and science and then virtue. I couldn’t quite see how a novel would work without falling flat with moral intent.’ The key was finally turned in 2005 when he was invited by the environmental group Cape Farewell to join a group of artists and scientists on a trip to Svalbard, a group of Norwegian islands in the Arctic Ocean.  McEwan was struck not only by the icy grandeur of the surroundings – 'one of the most beautiful places I’ve ever been’ – but also by the contrast between the idealistic talk of saving the world and the growing chaos in the boot-room, where people stored their equipment. 'It was a bit like a kit-room in a highly disorganised boys’ boarding school – stuff everywhere. By the end of the week I’d lost count of the number of times I was wearing two left boots or someone else’s helmet. And I thought, Ah! This is the way into the subject. There’s something comic about idealism, and our capacity for rational thinking and gathering data and evidence on the one hand, and on the other these little worms of self-interest, laziness and innate chaos.’  Solar’s Michael Beard is a physicist in his early fifties, who having savoured early triumph, winning the Nobel Prize for his groundbreaking work on 'the Beard-Einstein Conflation’ (an elaboration of Einstein’s explanation of photovoltaics), has been coasting for 20 years, endlessly repeating the same lecture, 'always on the lookout for an official role with a stipend attached’.  Beard is a joyfully monstrous creation – short, balding, overweight, cynical, a man of prodigious culinary and sexual appetites who is grappling with the collapse of his fifth marriage, to the pert Patrice – the price of having conducted 11 affairs in five years. Then, in one of those wholly unexpected flips of chance that McEwan’s fiction specialises in, fate – in the form of an eager young research student – presents him with an apparently revolutionary idea that will solve the world’s energy problem, through the process of artificial photosynthesis.  Solar is a cool and clever comedy of hubris, sexual indiscretions and the prevailing pieties of political correctness. It is also timely, arriving at precisely the moment when we are witnessing a marked rise in temperature in the debate about anthropogenic climate change, with the controversy over the leaked emails at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, and the IPPC reports about Himalayan glacier melt.  Ask McEwan where he stands in the climate change debate, and he refers you to the taxonomy advanced by the environmentalist Stewart Brand.  'There are the outright ideological deniers, who believe that man-made global warming is a myth. There are the sceptics whose minds will change as the data comes in. Then there are the warners – people who have looked at the data and feel that it’s pretty alarming. And finally there are the calamatists who feel it’s all going to be over next week and we’re in a handcart to hell.’  McEwan describes himself as a warner. 'Simply because I’m not a scientist and the weight of the data seems to me to be pretty huge. It would be quite extravagant to think there was some collusional conspiracy, or that there were too many jobs, or university grants that were on the line.  'Every now and then there is a screw-up – the UEA stuff; the Tibetan plateau is not going to be melted by 2035 but by 2350 – that’s quite a big difference. And there is a niche for journalists to go against the grain and carve out a little place for themselves that way. If more evidence came along that the whole process was going to be far slower than we thought – which I think is the least unlikely possibility – then I’d be delighted.’  Solar resolutely avoids coming down on either side of the argument – in the process neatly nailing the economic interests that could be seen to drive both. 'The deniers, like people everywhere, wanted business as usual,’ McEwan writes. 'They feared a threat to shareholder value, they suspected that climate scientists were a self-serving industry, just like themselves.’  'The thing that would have killed the book for me, I’m sure, is if I’d taken up any sort of moral position,’ he says. 'I needed a get-out clause. And the get-out clause is, this is an investigation of human nature, with some of the latitude thrown in by comedy.’  In Brand’s taxonomy, Michael Beard constitutes yet another type – a man whose primary interest in global warming is the opportunity it presents to further his own interests. When his business partner frets over the viability of their new energy scheme – 'If the place isn’t hotting up, we’re f*****’ – Beard remains defiantly upbeat. 'Here’s the good news. The UN estimates that already a third of a million people a year are dying from climate change. Even as we speak, the inhabitants of the island of Carteret in the South Pacific are being evacuated because the oceans are warming and expanding and rising. Malarial mosquitoes are advancing northwards across Europe… Toby, listen. It’s a catastrophe. Relax!’  McEwan resists describing Solar as a comic novel – a term he dislikes. 'My sense of them is when you’re a kid in rough and tumble play and someone pins you on the ground with their knees on your arms and starts tickling your ribs… A ripping yarn and a laugh on every page? No.’  But there are some terrific gags, I say.  He looks faintly aghast.  'There are whole stretches of this novel that will not make anyone laugh,’ he protests, making it sound almost like a promise.  McEwan says that the climax of the novel – where in a moment of high farce all the chaotic elements of Beard’s life converge on a small town in New Mexico where he is about to unveil his new invention – was the most complicated piece of writing he has ever tackled. 'I just couldn’t sleep at nights. I felt I had all these plates spinning on sticks, and that was a new experience for me. But it was a familiar sensation to get towards the end of writing a novel and think, I must be really careful crossing the road. I don’t mind getting run over when I’ve finished, but not yet… Don’t go near that person who’s sneezing… And I felt that if I stopped I really wouldn’t be able to get all these things sorted out. Which now I’ve finished, of course, is a state of mind I long to be back in.’  McEwan habitually likes to ground his stories in a strong ballast of fact, and takes a forensic approach to research. Researching Henry Perowne, the protagonist of Saturday, McEwan shadowed a neurosurgeon, Neil Kitchen, sitting in on several brain operations. In Solar, McEwan swims with comparable authority through the sea of jargon about Nambu -3 algebra and M-theory, Calabi-Yau manifolds and orbitfolds… or seems to, anyway – it would probably take a physicist to tell.  Understanding quantum mechanics, he writes in Solar, was 'the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights – not possible at the first attempt.’  'I had a go,’ he says. 'But I still haven’t lifted them.’ He spent much of Christmas studying a layman’s guide to relativity which his son had been given as a present by his mathematician girlfriend, 'and I still don’t get it. I don’t feel that I intuitively understand how time should curve, or space for that matter.’ He sighs. 'I can’t even lift the first bit of the weight.’  The Nambu-3 algebra and Calabi-Yau manifolds all, as McEwan puts it, 'fell off the back of a lorry.’ He laughs: 'Got some lovely concepts in here, mate.’ They were plucked from text books, 'because I loved the names. I really don’t have any understanding of it at all.’  He is on firmer ground, he says, with the process of artificial photosynthesis that Beard hopes will prove the answer to the energy crisis. 'I went to labs in Colorado where they do a lot of work on this, and read various papers on it. It’s still 10 or 20 years away, but I thought, well, this is just outlandish enough but still plausible enough to let him get excited about it.’  So scientists won’t be throwing up their hands in horror?  'Well, I think there might be some horror.’ He shrugs. 'You always get something wrong and you’ll get dozens of letters telling you as much.’  Following the publication of Saturday, he says, he enjoyed 'a fantastic correspondence’ with a motoring journalist who pointed out that Henry Perowne could not have 'released the clutch’ on his Mercedes 500SL since the car is automatic. 'I ended up buying a tiny BMW, on his recommendation.’  McEwan is the most elegant of stylists, shaping sentences that make you see the world anew. In one rapturously beautiful piece of writing in Solar, Beard sits in an aircraft in a holding pattern 10,000ft above Heathrow, watching 'his familiar corner of England rotate below him’, affording him views across the various scenes of his childhood, student life and fractured marriages, while ruminating on the 'unease and fascination’ that the spectacle of any city glimpsed from the air presents – 'these giant concrete wounds dressed with steel, the catheters of ceaseless traffic filing to and from the horizon – the remains of the natural world could only shrink before them.’  His novels are rich in psychological insight; among English novelists he is matchless in his skill at elaborating the interior lives of his characters, their motivations and their self-deceptions.  'I do believe novels are a form of elevated gossip. People sitting around talking about the motives and psychology of mutual friends – gossip, in other words – is deeply fascinating.’ The novel is an act of imaginative empathy, 'showing the possibility of what it is like to be someone else’. And empathy, as McEwan observes, is 'the building block of morality.’  It was an argument that McEwan advanced after 9/11, when he wrote in an essay that 'if the hijackers had been able to imagine themselves into the thoughts and feelings of the passengers, they would have been unable to proceed. It is hard to be cruel once you permit yourself to enter the mind of the victim.’  McEwan, of course, has had his own brush with fundamentalism. In 2008 he came under fire following an interview with Corrière della Sera, in which he defended Martin Amis against charges of racism, after Amis had written an essay attacking Islam, adding that he too despised fundamentalism 'because it wants to create a society that I detest, based on religious belief, on a text, on lack of freedom for women, intolerance towards homosexuality and so on – we know it well.’  The hate-postings that followed on jihadist websites were, perhaps, inevitable – 'the most frightening things,’ he remembers, 'violent things. I wasn’t directly threatened, but there was a lot of “he deserves to…”’  More surprising was an article in the Independent describing McEwan’s remarks as an 'astonishingly strong attack’ and lambasting him, Amis 'and the rest of the clash-of-civilisations literary brigade’.  McEwan seems reluctant to revisit – or inflame – the subject. 'It’s not as if I’d said anything radical,’ he says. 'I was simply speaking of direct experience of certain sites that I’d been on, just to see what people were saying – and they have a long list of hates that I find deeply unsympathetic, and I’d have thought most other people, including most Muslims, would, too.  'But I do think there has been a problem in how we conduct the conversation. Chunks of left-of-centre opinion have tried to close down the debate by saying that if you were to criticise Islam as a thought system you are de facto a racist. That is a poisonous argument. And they do it on the basis that they see an ally in their particular forms of anti-Americanism. So these radical Muslims are the shock-troops for the armchair left who don’t want to examine too closely the rest of the package – the homophobia, the misogyny and so on.’  In this context, McEwan describes himself as being 'with that bit of the left that has really been alarmed by the other bit of the left’. He has always, he says, been 'just left of centre. My political views are incredibly unexciting.’  McEwan’s father, David, was a working class Scot, a career soldier, who was a regimental sergeant-major at the time McEwan was born – 'and a pretty fearsome one’ – who eventually rose to the rank of major. 'All my father’s friends when I was growing up were men like him who had come from the ranks. And although they shared a mess with men from Sandhurst, the Sandhurst officers always looked down on them. My mother was always somewhat tyrannised by having to speak to the colonel’s wife and would put on her posh voice. And it cost her. It made her much more uneasy.’  McEwan has described his parents’ marriage as 'quite troubled’ – a union of prolonged, charged silences, punctuated by occasional episodes of domestic violence. His mother, Rose, had two children from an earlier marriage, but David had little time for them; one grew up with a grandparent, the other was away at a boarding-school, and McEwan felt like an only child. It was not until three years ago that he discovered that he actually had an older brother, the product of an affair between his mother and father when Rose was still in her first marriage, and whom she had given up for adoption as a baby.  McEwan found his brother, Dave Sharp, through a family tracing service. Last year Sharp, a bricklayer, published his own memoir, Complete Surrender, to which McEwan contributed a foreword – announced on the cover in type almost as large as the author’s name.  McEwan’s upbringing was influenced by his father’s postings: Aldershot, where he was born, Germany, and then Libya. At 11 he was sent away to a state-run boarding school in Suffolk. He found the isolation difficult. Consumed by shyness, he would later write that he never spoke in class and rarely spoke up in a group of boys. 'It was quite bleak. I just went numb for four or five years.’  After reading English at Sussex, he went on to the University of East Anglia, where his tutors were Malcolm Bradbury and Angus Wilson, and where he gained an MA in comparative literature. His first two books were collections of short stories – First Love, Last Rites, published in 1975, and In Between the Sheets (1978) – dark explorations of violence and transgression. A man recalls the night he lost his virginity to his sister. A paedophile molests a young girl, then throws her into a canal. In his first novel, The Cement Garden (1978), four children bury their dead mother in the basement in order to avoid being taken in by the social services and are liberated to experiment with sexual deviance.  'There was something rather like a lid being blown off a can when I started writing,’ he now says. 'I was so immersed in literature and had so much respect for it, and then I thought I’d join in this conversation, and there was something a little, I thought, dull about English writing in the late 1960s, early 70s. The well-made, rather polite. So I think my own short stories were me trying to be a Fauvist, trying to have mayhem and discomfort for the reader.’  His father, who died in 1996, was immensely proud of his success, McEwan says, although he has always felt that pride was tempered by parental reservations about the subject matter of his early work. 'He never mentioned it, but I knew it was painful for him. I don’t blame him either when you look at the poisonous characters milling about in my fiction in the early years – the whole awful bunch.’  McEwan had moved to London from Norwich in 1974, becoming part of a literary set centred on the New Review and the Pillars of Hercules pub in Soho’s Greek Street. Martin Amis had published his first novel, The Rachel Papers, a year earlier; he and McEwan became firm friends and were soon being saluted as the standard bearers for new British fiction. If Amis was the enfant terrible, his name seldom out of the gossip columns, McEwan presented an altogether more diffident and low-key figure – a man who, in person, seemed some distance from the higher literary strain of nastiness that had earned him the sobriquet 'Ian Macabre’.  Among McEwan’s readership there are those who continue to insist that his early work was his best, complaining with all the rancour of a jilted lover that in more recent years he has 'gone soft’.  'Yes, the long slow decline…’ he sighs. 'But what can you do? There will always be people who say, You never wrote a novel better than The Cement Garden or whatever. And there’s always going to be a solid body of people who think you’re no bloody good at all, whatever you did.’ The fact is, he says, that by the time of The Comfort of Strangers, which was published in 1981, he felt he was writing himself into a corner. 'It was all becoming rather mannered, and I felt there were many things in life and literature that I loved that were not finding their way into my writing.’  He did not publish a novel between 1981 and 1987, concentrating instead on writing an oratorio with the composer Michael Berkeley, and film scripts. His return to fiction, with The Child in Time, marked a shift towards what he describes as 'novels of ideas’, inquiries into the nature of human behaviour and the emotions, which also reflected his growing interest in science and a world-view that could be summarised as rationalist and atheistic – what he describes as 'philosophical materialism’.  It is no coincidence that three of the protagonists in his recent novels have been men of science. 'That’s really because every now and then I want an intellectual,’ he says, 'and the only intellectual that really interests me is one who is scientifically literate. The universe seems a little larger in the mind of a literate scientist.’  If occasionally susceptible to a somewhat comical view of the world…  In Saturday, Henry Perowne observes a pair of nurses from his window crossing the square and thinks of them as 'hot little biological engines with bipedal skills suited to any terrain, endowed with innumerable branching neural networks sunk deep in a knob of bone casing.’  It is a description, I tell him, that calls to mind the answer that McEwan’s good friend, the Darwinist and atheist Richard Dawkins, once gave me when I asked how he would define love – 'a product of highly complicated equipment, nervous equipment or computing equipment of some sort.’ Ah, the stuff of poetry…  McEwan smiles. 'Or self-parody. All that goes to show is that if you’re going to describe love you can do it from many perspectives. Richard immediately thinks that he won’t be subjective – probably because he’s talking to a journalist; he’s offering a third-person account on the basis of a mechanistic view. I’m surprised he didn’t mention oxytocins and neurotransmitters. And you could assemble a description of love that rested on the nervous system. But that’s the division between science and art. Novelists want to do it, as it were, in action – you don’t want to define love, you want to show it as it unfolds, as it blossoms, as it collapses, as it becomes hate or becomes companionship and lasts for ever. Whereas poets just have to have a stab at the pinprick of the moment, which is why lyric poetry is probably the best vehicle for describing love at its best.’  McEwan’s own journey towards rationalism would seem to be inextricably entwined with his personal life. In 1982 he married Penny Allen, whom he had first met while a student at UEA. Allen was divorced and had two daughters. Their first son, Will, was born a year later, and a second, Greg, in 1986.  Allen had a strong interest in alternative healing and spirituality. And McEwan says that throughout his twenties and thirties he 'almost felt it was a duty’ to keep the door open to some possibility, 'not of… religion isn’t quite the word for it, but of some other set of explanation for the world. I was married to someone who had profound spiritual beliefs and maybe there was a sense that I wanted to share in that. But what to say? It died on me.  I think the world is marvellous from the point of view of philosophical materialism, and it doesn’t get any more wonderful for me, in fact it becomes a little less interesting, if all mysteries are bundled off in the direction of a god.’  Black Dogs, written in 1992, and one of McEwan’s most interesting – and revealing – books, is essentially a rehearsal of the argument between faith and rationalism, embodied in a married couple, June, who hews to a belief in the evanescent, spiritual side of life, and Bernard, an avowed materialist. By the time McEwan wrote that book his own marriage had begun to break apart. He and Allen separated in 1994 and divorced a year later. He denies that the conflict in beliefs had anything to do with the break-up of the marriage. 'I don’t talk about it,’ he says, politely but firmly. 'But it wasn’t.’  In 1997 he married the arts journalist Analeena McAfee, whom he had first met when she came to interview him for a profile for the Financial Times. In the same year he published Enduring Love, a book in which he now appeared to have made up his mind on which side of the rationalist/supernatural divide he stood. While the character of June in Black Dogs is given a sympathetic hearing, in Enduring Love belief is represented by a religious fanatic, harbouring a murderous obsession with a science writer.  At that point Allen and McEwan had joint custody of their two sons. But in 1998 Allen – who had now published a book of her own, The Face of the Deep: Healing Body and Soul, which, according to its Amazon blurb, 'traces the development of the human being through the chakras (the inner lotuses or lilies) and their corresponding gods or planets, concluding that the human being is inseparable from the Solar System…’ – filed an application for sole custody, along with leave to remove their two sons from British jurisdiction because she wanted to move to France. McEwan fought the order and in February 1999 was awarded interim custody.  A few months later – in an example of the sort of sudden eruption of the irrational into a seamless and ordered life that could have been lifted from one of his novels – Allen went on the run in France with 13-year-old Greg. McEwan, who had by now been awarded full custody, was obliged to follow, in the full glare of the media spotlight, to bring his son back to England. In the ensuing proceedings at the High Court in London, Allen was criticised by the judge for having conducted a 'vitriolic campaign’ against McEwan since their divorce, and was barred from speaking publicly about their relationship. McEwan, for his part, was commended as 'a model of courtesy and restraint’.  And so he remains. He has never discussed the case and declines to do so now.  One senses that the whole episode must have been particularly painful for McEwan, a man for whom family is paramount. He clearly adores his two sons, speaking of them with enormous pride. Will is now 26 and has recently started his first job in genetic research; Greg, 23, has been living at home for the past year, but has recently gone off to study in Madrid. At one point in our conversation McEwan leaves the room, returning with a photograph of himself and Will taken 20-odd years ago, with another picture taken recently replicating the pose, laughing when I note that the son seems to have worn somewhat better than the father. 'Sometimes I look at photographs of my children when they were three and I feel like some lover who’s been left,’ he says, with a palpable note of longing. 'If I could have that back. But in fact I love the story of them emerging into adulthood too.’  McEwan and his wife are great ramblers, hill-walkers and travellers – the character of Michael Beard, he says, was partly developed in the idle moments waiting at airport luggage carousels as they did a round-the-world journey a couple of years ago, plotted by literary festivals where McEwan had been booked to appear. They have a cottage in Buckinghamshire, where he likes to write. At home in London, life tends to be quiet. He rarely goes to the theatre or cinema, and describes his main pastime as eating and drinking with friends. 'I keep regretting that I haven’t seen the thing that everyone else has seen, but I find it far more entertaining to be drinking red wine with pals,’ he says.  In Saturday he extols the blissfully happy condition of Henry Perowne’s domestic milieu – 'What a stroke of luck, that the woman he loves is also his wife’ – and sitting here in the house that he made Perowne’s, it is tempting to equate Perowne’s condition with McEwan’s own.  Indeed, Perowne’s domestic contentment seemed to incense some critics, who accused McEwan of smugness. Happiness, he muses, is 'a forbidden subject in literature. It’s very difficult to write about. I tried it in Saturday and some people were enraged by it. And I thought, all those murdering, incestuous bastards I filled my early stories with and nobody lifted a finger against them… But I think I encountered a very mean streak of liberal guilt; it was the rage of Caliban in the mirror.  'I was at a literary festival in Buxton and this lady stood up and in a very plummy voice said, When I read in Saturday about the men breaking into the house and one of them holding a knife to Henry Perowne’s wife’s neck, I just wanted him to slit her throat.  'And I said, Look, practically everyone in this room is by definition in the top two per cent of the world’s wealth – you’re well-off, you buy hardback books, I know it because I’ve just signed them for you, and you do the rest of the world a great disservice by pretending you don’t have an inordinate share of the world’s goods. But it did provoke some people to rare fury.’  McEwan sighs. He anticipates much the same thing happening with Solar. 'I know I’m going to get it with this one. People are going to say this is a novel against climate change, or a climate change sceptic’s novel – because people are so passionately committed to the idea that we’re facing a calamity and have to do something very quickly, and any novel that doesn’t say that will be very irritating for them.’  The tone suggests he understands their concerns. But it is not the job of novelists to save the world.  'No. But I am as keen that it should be saved as anybody.’  'Solar’ (Jonathan Cape, £18.99) is available from the Telegraph Books Shop for £16.99 plus £1.25 p&p.   or call 0844-871 1515 


        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        







Books





News »


Earth »


Climate Change »


Author interviews »


Editor's Choice »













 


Telegraph Book Shop










Related Partners





Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles







Books on Amazon.co.uk






In Books






 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor








 


Top ten most famous books we never finish








 


The 100 novels everyone should read








 


The 85 best books of 2014








 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries










Books





News »


Earth »


Climate Change »


Author interviews »


Editor's Choice »









Books





News »


Earth »


Climate Change »


Author interviews »


Editor's Choice »







Books





News »


Earth »


Climate Change »


Author interviews »


Editor's Choice »





Books



Books







 


Telegraph Book Shop










Related Partners





Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles







Books on Amazon.co.uk










 


Telegraph Book Shop














 


Telegraph Book Shop













 


Telegraph Book Shop






 


Telegraph Book Shop



 






Related Partners





Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles







Books on Amazon.co.uk



Related Partners




Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles







Books on Amazon.co.uk





Love puzzles? Get the best at Telegraph Puzzles


Books on Amazon.co.uk

In Books






 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor








 


Top ten most famous books we never finish








 


The 100 novels everyone should read








 


The 85 best books of 2014








 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries




In Books





 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor








 


Top ten most famous books we never finish








 


The 100 novels everyone should read








 


The 85 best books of 2014








 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries








 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor






 


Boris Johnson: a week with London's maverick Mayor



 





 


Top ten most famous books we never finish






 


Top ten most famous books we never finish



 





 


The 100 novels everyone should read






 


The 100 novels everyone should read



 





 


The 85 best books of 2014






 


The 85 best books of 2014



 





 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries






 


The world's 16 most spectacular libraries



 














Top Galleries








Advertisement

		<!--
			google_ad_client = 'ca-telegraph_uk_300x250';
			google_ad_channel = 'culture';
			google_max_num_ads = '3';
			google_ad_output="js";
			google_ad_type="text";
			google_language="en";
			google_encoding="utf8";
			google_safe="high";
			
			
			
							google_hints="books";
												
		// -->
		



















Top Galleries








Top Galleries






Top Galleries


Advertisement

		<!--
			google_ad_client = 'ca-telegraph_uk_300x250';
			google_ad_channel = 'culture';
			google_max_num_ads = '3';
			google_ad_output="js";
			google_ad_type="text";
			google_language="en";
			google_encoding="utf8";
			google_safe="high";
			
			
			
							google_hints="books";
												
		// -->
		






Advertisement













        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        




     /* EPOCH time at the start of MPU Ad */
     var mpuAdTimerStart = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("mpu", "300x250,300x600", "adj", "", 2));







Culture Galleries







 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians








 


80 great quotes about love and romance








 


The best British political insults








 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations








 


30 great one-liners








 


A history of the world in funny puns



 



Like Telegraph Books on Facebook



Culture Video»










Oscars 2016 highlights











Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes











Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar











Leo attends the Oscars after-party











Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors











Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights



 










        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web










     /* EPOCH time at the start of skyscraper Ad */
     var startOfSkyscraper = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("hpg,sks,skl", "300x600,120x600,160x600", "adj", "", 2));



Advertisement




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("yell", "300x150", "adj", "", 2));





        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web 


















				var expandMostCommentedArticles = false;
				var expandMostSharedArticles = false;
				var expandMostViewedArticlesTab = true;
				var mostCommentedAccordionValue = 0;
				var mostSharedAccordionValue = 1;
				var mostViewedAccordionValue = 2;
			






        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



Telegraph Books»






 


Robert Weintraub's No Better Friend




One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II








 


Winston Churchill at the Telegraph




A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 








 


Sinclair McKay's The Secret Life Of Fighter Command




This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 








 


Pet Tales : Extraordinary Pets from Ordinary Homes




The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends








 


The Birds of America




A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase






        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web








 
					(function() { 
			        var outbrainScriptTag = document.createElement('script'); 
			        outbrainScriptTag.type = 'text/javascript'; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.async = true; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.id = "outbrain"; 
			        outbrainScriptTag.src = 'http://widgets.outbrain.com/outbrain.js' ; 
			        var s = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0]; 
			        s.parentNode.insertBefore(outbrainScriptTag, s); 
					})(); 
					


                /* EPOCH time at the end of right hand column */
                 var rightHandTimer=Date.now();
                

















        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        


        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        


        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        

     /* EPOCH time at the start of MPU Ad */
     var mpuAdTimerStart = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("mpu", "300x250,300x600", "adj", "", 2));

Advertisement


	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("mpu", "300x250,300x600", "adj", "", 2));


	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("mpu", "300x250,300x600", "adj", "", 2));





Culture Galleries







 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians








 


80 great quotes about love and romance








 


The best British political insults








 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations








 


30 great one-liners








 


A history of the world in funny puns



 



Like Telegraph Books on Facebook



Culture Video»










Oscars 2016 highlights











Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes











Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar











Leo attends the Oscars after-party











Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors











Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights



 










Culture Galleries







 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians








 


80 great quotes about love and romance








 


The best British political insults








 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations








 


30 great one-liners








 


A history of the world in funny puns



 



Like Telegraph Books on Facebook



Culture Video»










Oscars 2016 highlights











Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes











Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar











Leo attends the Oscars after-party











Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors











Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights



 








Culture Galleries






 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians








 


80 great quotes about love and romance








 


The best British political insults








 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations








 


30 great one-liners








 


A history of the world in funny puns



 





 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians






 


100 funny jokes by 100 comedians



 





 


80 great quotes about love and romance






 


80 great quotes about love and romance



 





 


The best British political insults






 


The best British political insults



 





 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations






 


The Simpsons: 40 best quotations



 





 


30 great one-liners






 


30 great one-liners



 





 


A history of the world in funny puns






 


A history of the world in funny puns



 
 

Like Telegraph Books on Facebook


Culture Video»









Oscars 2016 highlights











Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes











Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar











Leo attends the Oscars after-party











Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors











Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights



 








Oscars 2016 highlights









Oscars 2016 highlights














Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes









Chris Rock's funniest Oscars jokes














Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar









Come Dine with Me producer wins Oscar














Leo attends the Oscars after-party









Leo attends the Oscars after-party














Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors









Lady Gaga sings with sexual abuse survivors














Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights









Oscars 2016: Red carpet highlights






 





        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web








        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web








More from the web






     /* EPOCH time at the start of skyscraper Ad */
     var startOfSkyscraper = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("hpg,sks,skl", "300x600,120x600,160x600", "adj", "", 2));




     /* EPOCH time at the start of skyscraper Ad */
     var startOfSkyscraper = Date.now();
  
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("hpg,sks,skl", "300x600,120x600,160x600", "adj", "", 2));
Advertisement


	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("hpg,sks,skl", "300x600,120x600,160x600", "adj", "", 2));


	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("hpg,sks,skl", "300x600,120x600,160x600", "adj", "", 2));
Advertisement



	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("yell", "300x150", "adj", "", 2));




	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("yell", "300x150", "adj", "", 2));


	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("yell", "300x150", "adj", "", 2));



        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web 








        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web 








More from the web 














				var expandMostCommentedArticles = false;
				var expandMostSharedArticles = false;
				var expandMostViewedArticlesTab = true;
				var mostCommentedAccordionValue = 0;
				var mostSharedAccordionValue = 1;
				var mostViewedAccordionValue = 2;
			












				var expandMostCommentedArticles = false;
				var expandMostSharedArticles = false;
				var expandMostViewedArticlesTab = true;
				var mostCommentedAccordionValue = 0;
				var mostSharedAccordionValue = 1;
				var mostViewedAccordionValue = 2;
			











				var expandMostCommentedArticles = false;
				var expandMostSharedArticles = false;
				var expandMostViewedArticlesTab = true;
				var mostCommentedAccordionValue = 0;
				var mostSharedAccordionValue = 1;
				var mostViewedAccordionValue = 2;
			










				var expandMostCommentedArticles = false;
				var expandMostSharedArticles = false;
				var expandMostViewedArticlesTab = true;
				var mostCommentedAccordionValue = 0;
				var mostSharedAccordionValue = 1;
				var mostViewedAccordionValue = 2;
			













        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



Telegraph Books»






 


Robert Weintraub's No Better Friend




One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II








 


Winston Churchill at the Telegraph




A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 








 


Sinclair McKay's The Secret Life Of Fighter Command




This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 








 


Pet Tales : Extraordinary Pets from Ordinary Homes




The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends








 


The Birds of America




A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase




        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



Telegraph Books»






 


Robert Weintraub's No Better Friend




One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II








 


Winston Churchill at the Telegraph




A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 








 


Sinclair McKay's The Secret Life Of Fighter Command




This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 








 


Pet Tales : Extraordinary Pets from Ordinary Homes




The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends








 


The Birds of America




A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase



        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



Telegraph Books»






 


Robert Weintraub's No Better Friend




One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II








 


Winston Churchill at the Telegraph




A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 








 


Sinclair McKay's The Secret Life Of Fighter Command




This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 








 


Pet Tales : Extraordinary Pets from Ordinary Homes




The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends








 


The Birds of America




A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase





Telegraph Books»





 


Robert Weintraub's No Better Friend




One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II




 



One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
  War II






 


Winston Churchill at the Telegraph




A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 




 



A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
  focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 






 


Sinclair McKay's The Secret Life Of Fighter Command




This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 




 



This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
  tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 






 


Pet Tales : Extraordinary Pets from Ordinary Homes




The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends




 



The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
  rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends






 


The Birds of America




A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase




 



A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
  bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase




        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web








        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        



More from the web








More from the web











 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View







 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news and results



                                View















 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View







 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news and results



                                View












 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View







 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news and results



                                View










 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View







 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View







 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View







 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news and results



                                View







 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View




 
				World News




 




                                The latest world news



                                View


 
				World News


 



                                View



 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View




 
				US News




 




                                Latest and breaking stories from the United States



                                View


 
				US News


 



                                View



 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View




 
				Film




 




                                All the latest film trailers, reviews and features



                                View


 
				Film


 



                                View



 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news and results



                                View




 
				Football




 




                                Catch up on all the latest football news and results



                                View


 
				Football


 



                                View
Back to top



HOME
Film
Film Reviews
Film News

Books

Book Reviews
Book Shop

 
Music
Music Reviews
Classical Music
Music Video

Music Festivals

Opera
Tickets

 
TV and Radio
TV Guide
Theatre
Theatre Reviews

Art

Dance
Dating

 
Culture News
Picture Galleries
Culture Video
Culture Critics

Photography

Crossword
Theatre Tickets

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast




HOME
Film
Film Reviews
Film News

Books

Book Reviews
Book Shop

 
Music
Music Reviews
Classical Music
Music Video

Music Festivals

Opera
Tickets

 
TV and Radio
TV Guide
Theatre
Theatre Reviews

Art

Dance
Dating

 
Culture News
Picture Galleries
Culture Video
Culture Critics

Photography

Crossword
Theatre Tickets

 
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication




HOME
Film
Film Reviews
Film News

Books

Book Reviews
Book Shop


Music
Music Reviews
Classical Music
Music Video

Music Festivals

Opera
Tickets


TV and Radio
TV Guide
Theatre
Theatre Reviews

Art

Dance
Dating


Culture News
Picture Galleries
Culture Video
Culture Critics

Photography

Crossword
Theatre Tickets


Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football


Announcements
Reader Prints




Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication


© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast





	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("inr", "1x1", "adj", "", 2));
	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("tmg", "1x1", "adj", "", 2));
	document.write(tmgAdsBuildAdTag("ftr", "1x1", "adj", "", 2));
